# The Teapot

Hans Christian Andersen

## 正文

There was a proud teapot--proud of its porcelain, proud of its long spout, proud of its broad handle. It had something in front and something behind, the spout in front and the handle behind, and it talked about that. But it didn't talk about its lid; that was cracked and had been riveted. It had a flaw, and one is not fond of talking about one's flaws--the others are sure to do that. Cups, cream pitcher, and sugar bowl, the whole tea service, would be sure to remember more the frailty of the lid, and to talk about it, than about the good handle and the excellent spout. And the teapot was aware of this.

"I know them!" it said to itself. "I am also well aware of my flaw, and I acknowledge it. Therein lies my humility, my modesty. We all have flaws, but one also has talents. The cups were given a handle, the sugar bowl a lid. I, of course, was given both, and one thing in front that they will never receive: I was given a spout. That makes me the queen of the tea table. The sugar bowl and the the cream pitcher have been granted teh privilege of being hand-maidens of palatability. But I am the dispenser, the mistress. I diffuse the blessing among thirsting humanity. In my interior the Chinese leaf is prepared in the boiling, tasteless water."

All this the teapot said in ths intrepid youth. It stood on the ready-laid table. It was lifted by the most delicate hand. But the most delicate hand was clumsy: the teapot fell, the spout broke off, and the handle broke off. The lid is not worth mentioning--enough has been said about that. The teapot lay in a swoon on the floor, the boiling water running out of it. It had received a hard blow. And the hardest blow of all was that they laughed at it, and not at the clumsy hand.

"That memory I will never lose," said the teapot when it later related the course of its life to itself. "I was called an invalid and put over in a corner, and on the following day I was given away to a woman who came begging for drippings. I sank down into destitution, stood speechless, both inside and out. But as I stood there my better life began. You are one thing and turn into quite another. Dirt was put inside me. To a teapot this is the same as being buried, but a flower bulb was put in the dirt. Who put it there, who gave it I do not now. It was given a compensation for the Chinese leaves and the boiling water a compensation for the broken-off handle and spout. And the bulb lay in the dirt, the bulb lay inside me. It became my heart, my living heart. I had never had one like that before. There was life in me, there was vigor and vitality; the pulse beat, the bulb sprouted. It was bursting with thoughts and emotions. It bloomed. I saw it, I bore it, I forgot myself in its loveliness. How blessed it is to forget oneself in others! It did not thank me. It did not think of me: it was admired and praised. I was so happy because of that: how happy it must have been then. One day I heard someone say that it deserved a better pot. I was broken in two. It hurt terribly, but the flower was put in a better pot--and I was thrown out in the yard, to lie there like an old fragment. But I have a memory that I cannot lose."
