# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1 | Lessons 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB)

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 08 | How Does Earth Change?â€‹](https://youtu.be/LB2N8SkmkdAâ€‹)
== How Does Earth Change? ==

The weather can change the Earth in many ways. If it rains too much, it can flood.  If there is too much water in the rivers and streams, water can flow onto the land. A drought happens if there is no rain. The land gets very dry and sometimes it cracks. Weathering can also change the land. Weathering happens when rocks break and change. Erosion happens when wind or water moves rocks and dirt. To prevent erosion, you can dig the earth and plant a tree. The land can change quickly or slowly. The shape of the land is always changing. Rain, wind, and ice can all make the land change.

Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm your host Brian
Stewart we're going to be continuing our
theme of earth science and we're going
to cover lesson 8
how does earth change so how does the
earth change in this lesson you will
discover the weather can change the
features of the earth in many ways so
that's an interesting point we're going
to be focusing on the weather so we'll
talk about different conditions of the
weather and how can it change the
features of the earth the features of
the earth but the main point is we're
going to be talking about the weather so
every day
you know we might see the Sun is very
hot today or it might be raining a lot
today or the wind is really blowing but
we don't really think about how the
weather is changing the earth around us
but in this lesson we'll take a special
look at that process which is important
and this process happens over a very
long time which is probably why we don't
really pay attention to it much unless
in certain circumstances when it happens
there's a very severe weather then we
notice big changes very quickly one of
those big changes of course is a flood
when it rains a lot right it rains a lot
the what the rivers lakes and other
bodies of water will get so much water
they'll come up and they will flood the
surrounding areas
sometimes we see that probably where you
live in the summer months when it rains
a lot
sometimes the rivers and lakes will come
up and there will be water everywhere
and in people's homes unfortunately on
streets as you can see it might come up
to where cars are usually driving so a
flood happens when it rains a lot lots
and lots of rain and the rivers and the
streams over flow they flow over their
banks ok so if you live in a city
whether it has a river running through
it or this near a river or streams it
rains a lot especially during the summer
months though
rivers will get too big and they'll come
over they will overflow their banks and
flow into your town or into your city
and that's a flood now the opposite of a
flood is when it doesn't rain at all
right a long period of time when there
is little or no rain as you can see in
the picture we call this of course a
desert right there's little or no rain
here and you can see the ground look at
the ground it's so dry that the ground
has become cracked and it's curving up
because you know this is mud and mud is
usually wet and moist and it's soft and
it's it's all flat but when there's no
water that it dries and it curls up and
it cracks like this and we can see just
by looking at this picture that there is
no water in this ground and that's what
happens because the land gets very very
dry we can take a look at a picture all
better a video of this type of
environment okay as we can see this is a
place where there has been a drought for
a long time now we can see water in the
background it looks a little bit wet way
back here maybe this water comes up in
the rainy season
but in the dry season it hasn't rained
for a really long time so all the water
has probably evaporated and it's
retreated it's gone down to this very
small part here and most of the rest of
the land there's little or no water at
all there's no water here it hasn't
rained for such a long time that this
land has dried out and it's become
cracked because it's so so dry in this
area okay and as I just said I use that
word crack because we saw some examples
of that right when you look at the land
like this here and you see many cracks
we call these these openings and opening
in the ground we call them cracks now a
lot of these cracks are made because the
land is dry a crack is made when the
land is dry there's no water here
there's because water is kind of like a
glue really that holds soil and and
earth and ground together when there's
no water that glue kind of breaks up
right and the the land separates or
and that's what creates cracks and it's
very obvious also in the previous
pictures when the mud gets so dry right
that water is gone so then the the mud
separates it gets dry it starts to curve
up and there's a lot of cracks now this
is in rock so it could be from because
there's no water or it could just be
because the rock is very hard there's
other reasons why ground cracks not just
because of dryness but other impacts
like an impact could crack the land if
the land is shifting or moving that can
also crack the land but we call these
things cracks these openings between
these spaces between the rock on the
surface those are cracks okay now what
we can also use another word to describe
this process right we're talking about
how the weather changes the features of
the land now over a long time we can
call that weathering weathering that's
kind of a long word it starts whoa
weathering it's weathering we can we can
say that that is a process that is the
process of the weather changing the
environment the breakdown of rocks by
the action of rain snow wind etc and
when we talk about weathering it sure
it's a change but it's usually a
destructive change it's not a change for
improvement it's a change that destroys
something it destroys the rocks it
destroys the the environment because a
lot of rain will fall the rain will will
pick away at the rocks little by little
wind will come by and wind you know over
a long time hundreds thousands millions
of years will start to carry off pieces
of rocks it will shape the rocks and of
course snow when snow falls down both
the weight and the cold also will act to
destroy the rocks now by the way
weathering is also a common word used to
describe what the weather does to your
house right so if you talk about the
weathering on your house you're also
talking about the destructive action
that the weather has on your house it
might create stains on the side of your
house
might show your paint on the outside of
your house might show cracks we call
that weathering so it's not just about
rocks but it can also be about just
about anything that is kind of destroyed
by the destructive forces of the weather
through rain snow and wind okay now
another special or specific type of
weathering we call that erosion erosion
is when rocks and soil are moved by wind
or water to a new place so where
weathering kind of makes cracks and
destroys rocks a little bit a specific
part of erosion or of weathering is
erosion and that's when rocks will
actually move from one place to another
if you take a look at this picture here
you can see a river at the bottom of a
valley or Canyon you see these rocks
here there's two forces acting on these
rocks well the first force we can talk
about is the water probably a long time
ago maybe millions of years ago tens of
thousands or millions of years ago this
land was flat the water came by and the
water dug into the ground and it carried
that ground away in downstream so the
water moved the rock and it kept digging
down into the earth
now after that happened then the wind
comes along when the winds moving over
the flat plane you know everything's you
know just picking up the the grass but
now the wind has a canyon or walls to go
around and this wind can get very strong
and as the wind goes around it will
carry away pieces of the rock and it
will actually carve the rock you might
now think about it because it takes a
very very long time for wind to shape
Rock but you get some very interesting
shapes with the wind and the wind will
also smooth out the rock right it's a
it's kind of like sandpaper going on the
rock for thousands and thousands and in
some cases millions of years and shaping
the rock into different shapes and we
call that erosion because basically the
rocks are being moved first the rocks
are being moved downstream
and second the wind is blowing the rocks
off the face of the cliff and down and
kind of smoothing
the sides of the cliff so that's what's
going on erosion when rocks and soil are
moved by wind or water to a new place
okay now we can also talk about this
verb here to dig and this is something
that people do animals do this too if
you have a dog and you have a yard you
might look at your dog if your dogs
digging around in the ground in your
backyard to dig to dig just means to
move soil and this would be soil right
ground from one place to another so if
you use a shovel and you dig you're
moving that soil or ground from one
place and you're putting it into another
place so to dig means to move soil from
one place to another usually human
beings and animals will dig but water as
we saw in the previous slide water can
also dig into the ground okay now to
break we talked about break right
weathering is kind of like a breaking
down of the rocks right to break means
to separate into many different pieces
looks like somebody's piggy bank got
broken but maybe this isn't a bad thing
right maybe whoever owns this piggy bank
took a hammer and they broke it because
they want the money maybe they're going
to buy a present for somebody their
sister or their brother it's their
birthday coming up soon they need some
money so they break the piggy bank and
they get the money out of it do you have
a piggy bank at home well if you do you
might one day break your piggy bank of
course many piggy banks are made of
plastic they have the little cap on the
bottom so this is a little bit dangerous
actually but anyway this is what happens
when something breaks right it separates
into many different pieces it was one
whole thing before it breaks apart now
you have many different pieces that's
exactly what's going on when we're
talking about weather changing rocks
right the weather is breaking that whole
Rock into several different pieces
erosion is moving pieces of that rock
from one place to another okay isn't
that sweet we have a heart-shaped pile
of dirt that's very sweet okay so this
is shaped as a heart right okay but this
is dirt when we talk about dirt we've
talked about soil a lot our
in the lessons right but there's a lot
of different words that mean the same
thing as soil and dirt is one of them
right we can call it ground we can call
it soil we can call it dirt earth or
soil by the way of course you probably
familiar with the word the adjective
whoops with the adjective dirty right
dirty of course comes from dirt because
if you go out and you play in the dirt
all day long you come back home you've
got dirt on your clothes you've got dirt
on your hands your mother says you are
dirty right go clean up right so of
course dirt makes people dirty but dirt
is also important for us right of course
especially in soil this looks like good
dirt because this is good dirt to grow
plants in okay so dirt isn't always
always something to avoid
sometimes dirt is a good thing and and
when it's shaped like a heart okay who
can resist a good dirt okay okay let's
move on we have a nice chart here to
kind of review some of the words that
we've learned so far in this lesson
we're talking of course about different
weather conditions and how they change
the earth how does the earth change well
first of all we can see in this picture
here that there's a lot of water
covering the land now these are trees
growing trees don't usually grow in
water like this so we can see that this
is a temporary situation it's a flood
there's a river somewhere that usually
flows through this area but there's so
much water that we can't see where the
river normally goes there's so much
water that the river got so big it
flooded it overflowed into the
surrounding area and it's cut all the
water is covering the entire area and
that's what we that's why we call that a
flood over here is the opposite of a
flood not a lot of rain so when there's
not a lot of rain we call that a drought
right and when there's not a lot of rain
the ground will crack and dry out and
start to form cracks and we learned that
word cracked let's take a look at a
video of an area that's been affected by
a drought okay this area has obviously
been affected by a drought there has
been no rain going on in here
well it's very dry and hot isn't it I
think I need some water if you go into
this area make sure you bring a lot of
water with you if you ever go hiking in
an area that's been affected by a
drought because there's no water it
hasn't rained for a long time look at
this tree this tree is dead it hasn't
had any water trees need water to
survive
so this drought has happened been going
on for a long time look at the land it's
dry it's cracked nothing is growing here
plants need water to survive without
water in an area that has been hit by
drought there are no plants and even the
plants that were there before they will
die and and unfortunately you will too
if you don't bring water so don't stay
here long and if you come here bring
plenty of water with you okay coming
back to our chart here we've seen the
job let's move on to weathering okay as
we saw before the weathering you know
it's a kind of a picture here we can see
the tree this is the root of the tree
rock used to be surrounding that the
rock used to be over that but because of
weather rain snow maybe win but I would
say more rain and snow has broken this
rock away from the tree now that's
dangerous for the tree right because
before the rock was supporting that tree
but now the roots of the tree are
exposed because what we have here is a
process called weathering and that's
broken the rocks down okay so that would
be weathering over here we have erosion
we've talked about this picture before
again remember erosion is when water or
air move rocks from one place to another
we do have a video to look at here let's
take a look at that and here we have of
course the starting shot is just a piece
of rock what this doesn't look very
interesting what's it Wow look at that
that's pretty neat huh okay what we've
got going on here is a good example of
the water look at the water you can see
the water moving and you could see the
wind moving across the top these are the
two forces that really caused erosion we
have the water car
serving its way down through this land
through this earth it's carving it's
digging down into this land and creating
a shape here right water will move in
the path of least resistance and it's
not always a straight line right in this
case the water is really going around in
a roundabout way but we could see the
water flowing from here down and around
over this way and it's carved out an
interesting shape in the in the plains
here in the rock now the other thing we
saw was the wind was moving along this
way the wind of course will move across
the top sometimes the wind will dip down
around here and it'll carve the rock
into different shapes usually what
happens is if you look at this rock here
on this side and over on this side it's
very smooth if you ran your hand over it
very it would be very smooth and that's
mostly because the wind has been carving
or are polishing that rock over
thousands and millions of years and it's
and that's also the part of the process
what we call erosion because it's been
eroding slowly eroding this rock into
the shape into the condition that you
see now it's very beautiful in many
places also these two forces okay let's
go over an exercise to review the words
that we've learned so far we're going to
talk about the different definitions
right and we have different words up at
the top the different words are drought
flood dig crack erosion and weathering
our first definition number one a long
period of time when there is little or
no rain so you have a very long period
of time little or no rain remember the
picture of the desert right with a dead
tree what do we call that area that area
has been hit by what an area has been
hit by a drought not by a flood right
these are opposites not by a dig not by
a crack hub height erosion of our
weather it's been hit by a drought that
is a drought number two our definition
to move soil if you move soil from one
place and you put it in another place
what are you doing that's of course a
verb to do something so which ones of
these are verbs drought and flood are
both nouns dig is a verb crack is a noun
erosion is a noun and weathering is
around as a noun the only verb we have
is dig so dig is our correct answer to
move soil from one place and put in
another that is to dig you're moving the
soil from here you're putting it in
another place to dig our third
definition here when the rock and soil
are moved by wind or water to a new
place okay and this is a process we're
describing a process here now it's a
type of weathering but more specifically
it is erosion erosion is a type of
weathering but specifically erosion is
when rock and soil are moved by the wind
and water those two forces that we saw
in the video that are shaping the earth
they're moving that earth from one place
to another by wind and by water and we
call that erosion that is the process of
erosion okay let's take a look at four
five and six the breakdown of rocks by
the action of rain snow wind etc so
we're talking about the destructive
force when you're breaking rocks apart
of course erosion does that but erosion
kind of you know moves rocks from one
place or another this process can just
be breaking the rocks apart not really
moving them around a lot and what we
call that of course is weathering that's
weathering when the weather the rain the
snow the wind will break a rock apart
into smaller pieces
we call that weathering okay number five
when it rains a lot really really a lot
of rain so much rain that all that water
fills up the rivers in the streams and
those rivers and streams they overflow
and water is everywhere what do we call
that we call that of course a flood okay
unfortunately that happens a lot of
times in areas where there are rivers if
your city or town has a river running
through it or by it you might experience
floods from time to time especially in
the summertime our last definition
number six an opening in the ground
which is made when the land is dry it's
not just made when the land is dry but
this is one of the common causes it's an
opening remember a space that opens up
in the ground
when especially when the land is dry
there's no water to hold the land
together the water goes away the land
separates okay we call that of course
crack it's an opening many openings
there are many cracks in the ground and
we saw many good pictures of that
happening in areas of drought okay we
have here a several pictures and what we
have is a question we need to answer the
question here the question is what
caused the conditions right we have
different conditions in each of these
pictures what caused these conditions
under each picture we have a choice a or
b a or B air B and of course these have
to go with each picture the choices are
the same for each picture basically what
we're talking about is a is heavy rains
all across and B is dry days all across
so we have to look at the pictures and
figure out which of these two things
happened to cause these conditions so
what caused this condition Oh flooding
what causes flooding a lot of rain heavy
rains will cause flooding okay so we've
got that one over here this is the
opposite of a flood this is a drought
right the land is dry it's cracked
there's very little or no water in this
ground so what causes that obviously
heavy rains doesn't cause a drought
because there's no water dry days will
cause a drought dry days no moisture no
water over here this is a little bit
difficult to look at what we have here
in a picture is not difficult to look at
it's difficult to figure out what's
going on but I'll explain it what we
have here is a small stream now we can
see that this stream used to be larger
because there's a lot of dry bare earth
over here that indicates that probably
this area was under water usually this
area is usually under water this stream
is probably usually a river right we can
see the bank of the river here you know
that's higher so the water probably goes
up to there but if the water is up there
it will cover this area too plants don't
really grow in water so what I think is
going on here is the water has
evaporated this river which used to be
wide is now very narrow and has become a
dream so what would cause that would
heavy rains cause that no because heavy
rains would cause this stream to grow
into back to where it used to be it
might even cause it to flood but the
opposite is going on here it hasn't
rained it's been very dry days for a
long time so the amount of water has
shrunk and this river has become a
stream so what would cause that
of course dry days okay let's go over
our true/false questions we have circle
true for circle T for true circle F for
false our first sentence a flood is an
opening in the ground a flood is an
opening in the ground that doesn't make
sense obviously that's false why because
if you think about it if there's an
opening in the ground the water would go
into the opening no more water
no more flood all right so that's kind
of a silly sentence right a flood is an
opening in the ground doesn't make sense
a flood is when there's too much water
and it overflows the river or streams
there's no opening if there was an
opening in the ground the water would go
into it and go away but there's no
opening so if we changed flood to crack
that would make us that would make sense
a crack a crack is an opening in the
ground that would make sense that is
correct okay so let's move on to number
two weathering weathering we talked
about that process of weathering happens
by the action of rain snow and wind etc
so actually that's true right because
we're talking about weathering
weathering is the breaking down of rocks
right
what causes rocks to break down into
smaller pieces lots of rain lots of snow
and wind over a long period of time that
process is called weathering okay number
three erosion which is a type of
weathering erosion happens when soil
moves water okay
so what the sentence is saying is that
soil is moving and when it moves it
makes water move with it does that make
sense does that sound right to you the
soil normally move no water usually
moves right so actually what happened in
this sentence they're trying to trick
you because they switched soil
and water around if we just switch these
two words then it would be true but
right now it's false right okay
so right now it's false because if we
said erosion happens when water moves
soil okay that's true because when water
moves soil or rock that we call that
erosion it moves in a wave out of the
area
that's erosion and that's what happens
but what they're doing is trying to
trick you because soil doesn't normally
move water normally moves in a river or
a stream but soil normally moves no soil
normally stays put unless wind or water
pushes it out of its place so that's
kind of a tricky sentence okay well that
about wraps it up for the vocabulary
part let's take a short break and then
we'll come back and take a look at the
reading section see you soon okay
welcome back we're going to go over the
reading section and take a look at some
of the words that we've just learned
about and of course the subject that
we're talking about is how does the
earth change from the weather how does
the weather make the earth change we can
see the topic sentence the weather can
change the earth in many ways again a
good topic sentence its general right
it's saying that our topic our subject
we're talking about how the weather
changes the earth and our controlling
idea is many ways there are many
different ways that the weather can
change the earth of course the rest of
the passage will give us details about
what those ways are the first way if it
rains too much it can flood right so one
way that the weather can change is that
if it rains so much there's a flood and
the earth is covered with water if
there's too much water in the rivers and
streams water can flow onto the land and
make life very very difficult for the
people in the area as you can see here
this poor person who has a home they
have a lot of water probably this much
water flowing through their home right
now right they've got a lot of water
going through their home and that's too
bad that it's caused by a flood too much
rain now the opposite situation in the
opposite situation when there's no rain
we
have what we call a drought a drought
happens if there is no rain the land
gets very dry it's sometimes it cracks
especially if the land has mud or clay
on the top it will crack and it will
buckle up so you can see it's very
interesting a drought is too much rain
I'm sorry a flood is too much rain a
flood is too much rain a drought is not
enough rain of course where do we want
to live we want to live in between don't
we it would be nice if nature was always
steady you know right in between those
two extremes but of course that's not
the way that weather works we either
have floods or we have droughts some
places on earth we can find places that
are usually in the middle most of the
time but not always right sometimes we
get too much rain sometimes we don't get
enough rain and these are the two
different situations that can happen
okay we can also talk about weathering
weathering is the process that breaks
rocks down weathering can also change
the land weathering happens when rocks
break and change as you can see this
tree was growing here probably these
rocks works were surrounding it but the
weather the the the wind and the snow
probably broke these rocks apart
actually to tell you the truth I think
this tree may have had something to do
with it too because as the tree grows it
expands it also helps that weathering
process to break the rock out but you
know especially with when we talk about
rain and snow they will help to break
the rocks down break the rocks of parts
okay a special type of weathering is
called erosion okay
erosion happens when wind or water wind
or water moves rocks and dirt remember
there's two forces wind and water
so first what happened was the water
came through and dug down into the earth
then the wind was able to come along the
the the sides of the canyon of the
valley here and just also knock off some
of the rocks and also carved the rocks
polished those rocks so takes a nice
takes the rough edges off the walls of
the
Kanyon here so erosion happens when
winter water moves rocks and dirt to
prevent erosion you can dig the earth
and plant a tree so that's that's an
interesting sentence right there if you
want to prevent erosion if you want to
prevent that water from taking soil a
valuable soil or valuable dirt that you
need to grow your plants in what you can
do is you can dig into that soil you can
plant a tree what what will happen there
is mostly the tree will stop the wind
action from carrying away the top layer
soil that's a very important point and
we can see that going on in different
parts of the world that's the that's the
most important thing that you can do to
plant a tree but trees will also soak up
water right so the water won't run so
quickly over the ground instead the the
trees will stop that water especially
the roots and they'll drink up that
water so not as much water will go
through the area so to prevent erosion
we can we can plant trees and that's a
good idea it's a good natural way to
prevent erosion the land can change
quickly or slowly usually slowly right
not very often that it changes quickly
but it can change quickly in the case of
a flood that's those are very quick but
over time over a long period of time
especially when we're talking about wind
these walls of the canyon were not
formed quickly these walls of the canyon
were formed over many many many many
human lifetimes no human being alive
today saw this when the river was
flowing on the top no those people who
saw that if they if there were people
there at the time they're a long long
long debt right there they're gone
nobody remembers them thousands of years
ago okay so this is this process that
takes place over a very very long time a
lot of this weathering and erosion takes
place over a very very long time the
shape of the land is always changing we
don't see it because we only live what
we Lin live 50 60 70 maybe for lucky a
hundred years which is not a lot of time
really when we talk about the age of the
earth it's very very short time we're
here for a very short time we don't see
always the the land how it's changing if
we lived for thousands of years then we
would probably notice more how the earth
is
changing from the weather but it's
always going on rain wind and ice are
always changing the earth they can all
make the land change of course this
process takes a very very long time
weathering and erosion they do take a
long time to change the earth and make
these beautiful landscapes that we can
see and enjoy today okay let's go over a
reading skill the reading skill is
classified so we're talking about what
are the forces that change the shape of
the earth what changes the shape of the
earth we can talk about these these
forces and then we can describe what
they are so here we have the definitions
and then we have what they actually are
we're classifying them we're naming them
we're labeling them okay first of all we
have the definition it rains too much
now here are words down here drought
weathering flood erosion so which word
goes with this definition when it rains
too much what happens well too much rain
will cause a flood okay the rivers will
overflow the streams will overflow
water will be everywhere we call that a
flood now
the next situation there is no rain so
there's no rain it hasn't rained for a
long time very long time trees will die
plants will die plants will disappear
it's just dirt and the dirt is so dry
that it starts to crack right that water
that was holding it together and on a
nice smooth surface it's all gone that
glue is gone so that the earth tries to
you know it buckles up it starts to
curve and it starts to crack of course
that condition is known as a drought
this area has been hit with a drought or
there is a drought in this area the next
situation when wind or water moves rocks
and dirt and the two forces again wind
and water they move they take rocks from
one place and not just rocks but also
dirt right so soil or little pieces of
rocks on the top on the top layer it
will move those rocks and dirts dirt
away dirtiest non-count don't say dirts
so move rocks and dirt away what do we
call that process of course we call that
process erosion erosion okay our last
force that we're talking about that
changes the shape
the earth when rocks break and change
rocks will break apart and they'll
change their shape that process over a
long period of time is called weathering
weathering involves rain snow and wind
it will break the rocks apart make them
change their shapes okay so we have lots
of different forces these are our forces
here flood drought erosion weathering
and these are our descriptions of what
these things are we have classified the
forces that change the shape of the
earth okay
let's do some reading comprehension
questions the first one what can happen
if there is no rain for a long time so
there's no rain it's very very dry in an
area for a long time what can happen if
what what can happen what results from
that situation a flood a drought or
overflow well flood an overflow are
related right there's too much rain you
have a flood a flood is caused when the
water overflows a river or stream so our
answer of course is B drought because
there's no rain if we have a lot of rain
we have a flood we have overflows but if
there's no rain then we have a job too
okay let's move on to number two
weathering happens when rocks
what a flow-on to land rocks flow onto
land rocks move like water over land
that doesn't make sense rocks rock stay
put they don't flow over the land well
they do but over a very very long time
okay B are moved by water weathering
happens when rocks are moved by water
that's erosion okay
see weathering happens when rocks break
and change okay from our reading that's
the correct answer right because
weathering is a special type of force
that breaks rocks apart okay and that's
what we're talking about breaks them
apart changes their shape changes the
way that they're put together held
together erosion yeah erosion is a type
of weather but erosion really moves
rocks and dirt from one place to another
sometimes in some cases it moves it very
far away from its original position okay
number three rain wind and ice can all
do what a slowly make a flood
and be change the shape of the land see
stop weathering from happening okay
let's go over these slowly make a flood
happen floods are not slow floods happen
quickly especially in the time when
we're talking about the relative time of
the earth floods are very quick they
happen then they go away sure it may
seem like a long time if you're in a
flood and you have to wait for the
waters to go away but really it's just a
short time when we consider the age of
the earth so this is not true a is not
true be rained rain wind and ice can
change the shape of the land sure we saw
that we saw that for from weathering and
we especially saw that with erosion
right
these things can change the shape of
land rain and wind can cause water to to
create erosion wind shapes the rocks ice
can freeze the rock and then when the
ice melts it can expand the rock and
crack it so the rocks are broken apart
that's part of weathering so it can
change the shape of the land these
things that's the right answer but
numbers see let's just take a look at
that these things can stop weathering
doesn't make sense because these things
are part of weathering okay so that that
one it makes sense rain wind and ice are
parts of weathering they are they are
components of weathering so they don't
stop weathering from happening that
wouldn't make sense art right answer is
be moving it on to number four you can
help stop erosion how can we stop
erosion caused erosion usually is bad we
don't want our valuable soil especially
for growing plants here we don't want
that to be blown away we don't want that
to go away if there's a flood and the
water takes it away farmers need soil
they need the topsoil of their land to
have productive land to grow plants okay
we need that stuff so we want to stop
erosion but how can we stop erosion well
one way that we can stop erosion is by
digging into the earth and planting
trees as I said before if you plant a
tree that will first of all it will stop
the wind from moving so strongly right
it'll break the wind apart it will help
keep the soil in place also it will soak
up water and it might help alleviate or
might help prevent the water from
carrying your your soil away
let's just look at B and C for practice
you can help stop erosion by digging the
earth and weathering rocks doesn't make
any sense how can we whether rocks that
doesn't make any sense see moving rocks
and dirt into cracks is an interesting
idea oh there's a lot of cracks in the
ground let's just move some dirt into
those cracks and cover those cracks up
that's not gonna help anything right
that's that's that's not really a good
way to stop erosion because the wind
will pick up that dirt out of the cracks
when you go home to and go to sleep
there's a strong win that night all that
dirt is going to be blown out of the
cracks so the best way of course is a
digging into the earth and planting
trees plant a tree help out the
environment stop erosion oK we've come
back to the chart that we saw before we
have our pictures here and these
pictures all show different forces about
how does the earth change these are
different ways that the earth changes
let's go over them in turn do you
remember if you remember I'll describe
the pictures you guys guess which word
to use to label these forces that change
the earth first of all we have an area
here it's covered by water where the
river used to be there's probably a
river flowing through here it probably
rained a lot and there's so much water
that the water overflowed went over the
area of the river and flowed out into
the surrounding land what do we call
that situation what do we call that
condition we call that of course a flood
now over here coming over here we have
the opposite of a flood what is the
opposite of a flood remember we have the
two extremes and I'll I'll spell that
word out for you right now
extremes we talked about that a little
bit before I mean these are extremes in
the weather flood is one extreme on the
other side is drought these are two
extremes so over here we have the
opposite of a flood there's no rain has
it rained for a long time this ground is
very very dry okay there's no water here
the earth has begun to crack what do we
call this condition we call this
condition a drought okay no water okay
let's move down here to this picture
here now we can see that the rocks have
been breaking apart the rocks have been
been broken apart by some forces usually
rain snow wind will break rocks apart
and change their shape and you know make
them from big rocks into Little Rock's
what do we call that what is that
process called that process is called
weathering right any time and it's a
destructive force remember that it's a
destructive force it breaks things apart
it's not just rocks remember I also told
you that weathering also happens to your
house it happens to your car right
anytime the weather helps break down or
destroy an object then we call that
weathering now a type of weathering also
is shown in this picture right first of
all we have a water that flows through
the area and carries rock and and rocks
and dirt from one place to another but
we also have wind strong winds will also
cause a type of weathering known
specifically as erosion and that wind
will carry rocks and dirt away to a
place far away to prevent erosion if we
plant trees that will prevent the wind
first of all it will prevent the wind
from coming through it will also soak up
a lot of the water okay and maybe change
the the weather patterns in the area as
well but if we plant a tree we can help
to prevent erosion okay so we've covered
this lesson lesson eight how does the
earth change you may not realize it but
the earth is changing all the time the
weather is changing the earth very very
slowly and we don't realize it because
we're not on the earth for a very long
time but if we lived for thousands of
years we could see really big changes in
the earth because of the weather
okay well that's kind of an interesting
lesson we'll wrap it up here hope you've
learned a lot as usual we'll see you
next time everybody
take care
