ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading | Science 02 | Lesson 15
[Magnetsâ€‹](https://youtu.be/AhI2KFMRyGw)

Magnets attract things like paper clips and steel spoons. They attract objects without touching them. Magnets attract metals that have iron in them. Magnets do not attract things made of rubber, wood, plastic, etc. Magnets have two poles . The N shows the north pole and the S shows the south pole. Try to put two magnets together. If the poles are different, they will attract each other. If the poles are the same, they will repel each other.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart well
we're at the end of the book we're on
lesson 15 and in Lesson 15 we're talking
about magnets so as you can see this is
a magnet here it has a North Pole and a
South Pole we'll talk about that some
more later in this unit we will discover
the properties of a magnet the
properties of a magnet what are
properties the properties are the
characteristics or the the things we can
say about something what can we say
about magnets how do they work what
sorts of forces do they use these are
all the properties of a magnet and
that's what we're gonna talk about in
this lesson today so let's get on with
the vocabulary our first word of course
is magnet right that's what we're
talking about a magnet a magnet is a
piece of metal it's a piece of metal
like this piece of metal some magnets
are shaped like this that attracts iron
or steel so some magnets are shaped like
this by the way what shape do we call
this what is this shape this shape looks
like the shoe that a horse wears so we
call this a horse shoe this is a horse
shoe shape a horse shoe shape because a
horse you know we mean we make a foot or
a shoe for the for the horse the foot of
the horses like this so that is the
shape of a horseshoe some magnets are
shaped like this but many other magnets
are just shaped like this and this is a
bar shape bar so magnets have horseshoe
shapes very common and they also have
bar shapes right and then this would be
C this one is north this one is south so
one part here this might be north and
this would be south we'll talk about
that later okay but a magnet is a piece
of metal in this shape or this shape
that attracts iron or
deal to it iron is what attracted to
steel is a something that human beings
make from iron so they both have iron
and it attracts it you can see all these
little paper clips these of course are
paper clips paper clips are made of
steel they have iron in them and they
are attracted to the magnets okay so
that's very interesting we'll talk about
attract too so we're talking about
magnets in this unit okay remember on
the previous slide we're talking about
magnets and I pointed out North Pole and
South Pole Pole is a very important
thing to think about when we talk about
magnets and this is a good picture
showing the red part is the North Pole
and the South part the blue part is the
South Pole where do we also hear about
poles right if you think about the earth
the earth also has a North Pole and a
South Pole doesn't it so the North Pole
is up here the South Pole is down here
that's when people first found out or
discovered magnets and what they found
was a force or energy that's called
magnetism magnetism
Magne to the zone so a long long time
ago actually thousands of years ago
people found out that iron would turn if
you put it in water a small piece of
iron if you put it in water it would
turn a certain way of course it was
pointing north
it would point north so a pole is one of
the two ends of a magnet i'll some
pieces of iron were actually they were
magnets and they would point north it's
very interesting when we look at
magnetism the force or the energy in a
magnet is always flowing from the north
to the south so if you can see it we
can't see it
but the energy or the force is going
like this okay and there's also some
going but that gets lost right it's
going all in the wrong way okay but it's
the north is emitting the magnetism the
force and the south is attracting it
it's picking it up we'll talk about that
some more but whether it's a horseshoe
shape
or a bar shake that's the way that the
force works so a pole is one of the two
ends of a magnet and if you think about
it the earth is a magnet so we also have
a North Pole and a South Pole on the
earth and that but North Pole and South
Pole that tells us which way the magnet
is pointing and that's how people a long
time ago could find out oh that way is
north okay so it's very interesting
okay so I've talked a little bit about
attracted right when the small piece of
iron it points north because it's
attracted to that way right the energy
is flowing from the north from the north
part of the magnet to the South part of
the magnet so when we see this the north
part is attracted to the south part
because the magnetism the force is
coming from the north and it's picked up
by the south so that means there's a
force of attraction attract means to
pull toward something so if these two
magnets these are bar magnets bar shaped
magnets if you put them north side to
south side they will pull towards each
other they will attract each other and
that's very interesting we have a video
of this it's a very interesting video to
watch so let's take a look here we have
a pile of iron or steel pieces right
what are they they're screws right these
are screws we use those with the
screwdriver to make things out of wood
but they're made out of iron the screws
and there's other other pieces also here
but mostly screws what happens if we put
a magnet down here what's going to
happen well as we can see here comes a
magnet right whoa and it stops because
that those pieces of Steel attract the
magnet and the magnet can pull up all
those pieces of steel because of
magnetism here comes back down boom
right okay but those pieces of metal are
stuck to the magnet they are stuck to
the magnet because of attraction they
are stuck to they are stuck to or of
course you would say stick to for the
present tense stick to its
they stick to the magnet they are stuck
to the magnet because of the attraction
between the force that's going through
by the way if this is north and this is
a South that force it creates a very
strong force it's much stronger in a
horseshoe shape than it is in a bar
shape there's still a force there but
this shape creates a much stronger force
so it can pick up more metal and that's
what's going on there
so that's very very interesting okay
okay so we just saw the magnet
attracting metal but we can also see
that magnets can also repel each other
push away remember the magnetism force
is coming out of the north end it's
coming out of the north end so if we
turn the bar magnets so that north meets
north what's happening well the force is
pushing against each other right the
magnetism is coming out but it's coming
out and meeting head-on it's like
clashing right and they don't like each
other they're pushing they're repelling
each other
repel means to push away so this is
pushing this is pushing so they don't
they don't attract each other they repel
each other so they go away from each
other and that's interesting to note too
that these two sides they don't like
each other so they will be pushing away
from each other this is an experiment
you can try if you have two magnets
right try that out put the north end of
the magnet against the north end of
another magnet you can push them around
on the table they won't touch but
they're repelling each other they're
pushing away from each other so that's
very interesting a force or a very
interesting feature of magnets
especially with bar magnets you can do
that okay we've talked a little bit
about the types of things that magnets
attract one thing we've talked about was
iron iron is a metal right this is a
hunk of iron ore right this is raw iron
that you find in the ground this is a
metal that is used of course to make
many things iron is a heavy metal but
it's a hard metal
and we can shape it of course a long
time ago they used to make Spears and
arrowheads out of it for weapons it was
used primarily also for shields it's a
hard useful metal but one thing about
iron that's very interesting when we
talk about magnets is the atoms very
very small pieces of the iron the atoms
inside the iron when you put a magnet
near the iron the atoms will all change
direction and point towards the magnet
in iron this is very common actually
magnets exert the same type of force the
same type of attraction on everything
but iron has a particular feature of it
is that it's very easily it's very
easily to change the direction of the
atoms and iron other things they don't
change that the force is not that strong
so other things are not attracted to
metal like our bodies aren't attracted
to magnets or wood isn't attracted to
magnets but an iron
it's very strongly attracted to magnets
as we saw before right so iron is one
substance that is attracted by magnetism
or the force of the magnet and also
steel because steel is a kind of metal
that is strong and has iron in it
alright before I said you know human
beings we used iron to make weapons and
shields and many tools but then we found
out how to use iron in a stronger way
and and in to make it with very much
hotter temperatures and that is steel
once we learned how to make steel we
stopped using iron so much but steel
still has iron in it right there is
still a little bit of iron in it so if
there is iron inside of it
those atoms are still being changed
direction those atoms still change
direction and they're being attracted by
the magnet so the magnet is still
attracting steel because there is iron
in steel okay let's move on now to a
chart and we've been talking about
magnets right we've been talking about
the attraction of magnet so we saw the
video
where the magnet really attracted those
screws that I showed you in the video
now let's take a look at a chart that
shows what do magnets attract what do
they attract and what do they not
attract so do attract do not attract
okay so let's think about that remember
things that magnets attract have iron in
them right so let's take a look here we
have a picture of iron buttons so of
course they're going to attract these
things here right
well what about plastic plastic button
will and a magnet attract those no they
a magnet does not attract a plastic
button if you hold a plastic button next
to a magnet it will not the attraction
is not strong enough there's no
attraction not enough traction there so
they won't stick to the magnet it won't
stick to it okay next a steel spoon if
you hold a steel spoon like this one
right here if you hold a steel spoon
next to the magnet will it stick to it
you bet it attracts but if you have a
plastic spoon it doesn't attract and
over here we have a steel car if we put
a magnet next to the steel car click
right it will stick to that car right so
it will attract but with a wooden car no
it won't attract that so we can see here
of course iron steel steel things made
of iron or steel will be attracted by
magnets but other things like plastic or
wood are not attracted by magnets they
will not stick to a magnet so there's
not enough attraction there they do not
attract okay so here we have things that
attract here we have things that do not
attract okay let's move on let's go over
our exercise we're matching the word to
the definition so here are our words and
here are the definitions we have pull
attract attract magnet magnet repeal
repeal iron and steel okay so those are
our words here are the dead
missions let's see how well you remember
the vocabulary number one to push away
to push away remember North Pole and
North Pole if they if you put them
together they will push away from each
other
so they will what they will repel okay
push away they will repel each other
repel means to push away number two
a strong metal that has iron in it we
talked about that right
I told you guys the first humans found
iron and used the metal to make tools
weapons and and other things with it
but then they found out how to make a
stronger metal from iron still has iron
in it but we don't call it iron anymore
what do we call it we call it steel
steel is an improved version of iron
it's a stronger metal and it's much
shinier too especially if you polish it
number three a piece of metal that
attracts iron or steel so a piece of
metal that attracts pulls iron or steel
closer to it what are we talking about
in this unit of course we're talking
about magnets so a magnet is a piece of
metal that attracts iron or steel let's
move on to number four when we talked
about the magnet we talked about two
ends of the magnet and they're very
similar to the earth right the earth
actually is a huge magnet right and
there are two different ends of the
earth there is the north end and the
south end and same thing with a magnet
so these two ends what we call it then
we call the North Pole and the South
Pole so a pole is one of the two ends of
a magnets okay number five number five
is actually the opposite of the first
word that we talked about it's the
opposite of this word here repel to pull
towards something if you pull something
towards you or if a magnet is pulling
iron or steel towards it what is it
doing it
is attracting to attract to pull toward
it's the opposite of repel so these are
pandeiro right attract repel these are
opposite words opposite meanings I think
in Korean you say pandeiro right
opposite opposites in English would say
opposites opposites they're opposites
okay six a metal is used to make many
things a metal that is used to make many
things again we talked about this before
this is the metal that human beings
found a long time ago it's very strong
it's heavy but it's strong it's very
useful for making many different things
of course we're talking about iron we
saw a example of the iron ore that is
used to make many things and in fact
iron is also used to make steel so steel
and iron both have the same properties
in the terms that magnets are attracted
to these metals or these metals are
attracted to magnets okay here we have
another chart and this chart is showing
us the poles of a magnet
remember we have a North Pole and a
South Pole and look at the way that
these bar magnets are arranged right in
this picture we see north and north are
are near each other they're not together
because they're pushing away but they're
close to each other so what's going on
here poles that are the same repel each
other they repel they push each other
away from them okay
poles that are different attract each
other so here we have North right we
have South these are different poles so
they attract each other now this is very
interesting before I just taught you
about opposites right and we can also
use that here North and South are
opposites right but as we can see north
and south which are opposites they
attract each other there's a saying in
English opposites attract
opposites
attract and of course this comes from
magnets but sometimes people use this to
talk about personality right so
sometimes people say a hot-tempered
person is attracted to an easygoing
person opposite personalities attract no
whether that's true or not you know
there's lots of different cases out
there but it's a common saying in
English people use why are those two
people why is that boy why is the boy
and the girl they're a couple but they
have such different personalities Oh
opposites attract
that's a very common saying to explain
that type of situation
it comes from magnets right because
South and North are opposites but they
attract each other so that's a very
interesting idea so poles that are
different attract each other
opposites attract easy thing to remember
okay so now we have a quiz here choose
the things that will be attracted to
magnets so before in the chart we saw
the different types of things that are
attracted to magnets remember if the
thing has iron or steel basically steel
has iron in it so if it's made of iron
or if it's made of steel it will be
attracted to a magnet so let's take a
look here what things will be attracted
to magnets over here we have fruit
grapes pear bananas okay whether or not
it's fruit or plastic toys of looking
like fruit it doesn't matter will they
be attracted by magnets do they have
iron or steel in these things remember
whether it's really fruit or if it's
plastic no they will not be attracted to
a magnet because they don't have any
iron in them right they don't have
enough iron in them and they're not made
of iron so they are not attracted so eh
no they will not be attracted to magnets
what about over here
what are these things these are blocks
they're blocks
I'll put that down here they're like
building blocks you know kids will play
with them especially when they have the
alphabet the letters they'll have
different letters on them of the
alphabet and you can make words out of
them but what are these made out of
they are made out of wood so these are
wooden blocks and as we saw before wood
is not attracted by magnet so magnets
will not attract these things so no
that's not true
what about over here what are these
these are of course our bottles what are
they made out of they're made out of
glass glass bottles glass whoops
there is my s there's my ass glass so
they're made of glass they are not
attracted by a magnet so C is not
attracted by a magnet is there anything
that's attracted by a magnet here well
let's take a look at that oh look at
these these are these actually are not
screws these are similar to screws but
we call them a special word because
they're not the same as a screw they
have a different head on them these are
called bolts vol t41 and we have many so
I put bolts there are many bolts they're
very similar to screws which I taught
you before but um bolts what our bolts
made of usually bolts are made of steel
and what does steel have in it they has
iron so steel bolts steel bolts has iron
in it so they are attracted to magnets
this is the only thing here in this pic
in this quiz that will be attracted to
magnets so remember not everything is
attracted by a magnet iron and steel are
the only two things that are attracted
by magnets I'll get us move on here we
have our true/false questions number one
a magnet is a piece of metal that
attracts steel or iron so hopefully you
remember what we're talking about of
course in this unit magnets what's
something special about a magnet is that
it attracts it says attracts not
repelled it attracts it pulls towards it
steel or iron yes iron that's true and
steel has iron in it so this is true
this statement is true number two
repel means to pull towards so if I pull
something towards me or if I have a
force that that is pulling something
towards me
am i repelling no that's not true right
repel means to push away so we have to
change this we could either say repel
means to push away or we could change it
to attract right because the opposite of
repel is attract attract means to pull
towards that would be true so we have to
change that right that's false
number three steel is a metal that has
iron in it we just talked about that
right on this one I said steel or iron I
of course it attracts iron and steel has
iron in it that's true right so that's
very easy steel is a metal that has iron
in it steel is made from iron so of
course it has iron in it okay that wraps
it up for the vocabulary section let's
take a short break and then we'll come
back and take a look at the reading okay
welcome back to the reading of course
the reading passage is about our subject
for this lesson which is magnets right
we're talking about the properties are
the characteristics of magnets so let's
take a look our first sentence of course
is about magnets we see magnets that's
our subject what's an interesting
feature a property of magnets will the
most impressive or the most noticeable
thing about magnets is that they attract
they pull towards them they pull things
made of iron so they pull things made of
iron towards them magnets attract things
made of iron it's very fun to play with
right we can pick up screws or little
pieces of metal with a magnet and that's
kind of fun to play around with but it's
also interesting to understand what are
the forces going on behind that so
magnets attract things like paper clips
because paper clips are made of steel
right steel has iron in it and steel
spoons so magnets will attract those
things we can pick those things up with
a magnet it looks like magic it's not
magic its magnetism okay
they attract objects without touching
them without even touching them for
example if you have a magnet a strong
magnet and you a spoon you show you've
just put them near each other and
without touching the spoon will come
towards the magnet if you're quick or if
you're steady enough you can pull that
spoon and they won't touch right if
you're very good or you could use a
piece of paper put the magnet under the
paper the spoon is on top of the paper
they're not touching but you can drag
that spoon around so that's interesting
without touching them there is a force
of attraction between them magnets
attract metals that have iron in them of
course we're talking about that again
it's very similar to our first sentence
attract metals that have iron in them so
if the metal has iron in it not just
made of iron but it just if the metal
has iron in it for example like steel
then it will attract it as well magnets
don't attract other things what are the
things magnets do not do not attract
things made of rubber wood plastic etc
just things made of iron by the way just
to let you know magnets actually do
attract these things but the atoms
inside rubber wood plastic etc are they
don't change their direction very easily
they there needs to be a really really
strong force a really really strong
magnet in order to to attract these
things but we we don't have those types
of magnets right so for our so what we
know if we experiment we see that
magnets don't attract rubber wood
plastic there's no attraction there
there's no force we can't see it we
can't detect it so for our intent and
purposes magnets don't attract things
made of rubber wood plastic and etc just
the iron atoms that change directions so
easily so that they are attracted to
magnet
okay another thing what we talked about
with magnets is that they have two poles
they have two poles of course they have
a North Pole and a South Pole the N if
you look at a magnet and you know
depending on who made the magnet they
might put an N or their mark the end
with they'll mark one end of the magnet
with a letter n so the N shows the North
Pole n is for North and the S is for the
South Pole the south so S is for south
and is for north there are two different
poles of a magnet
remember the magnetism the force of
magnetism goes out of the north and into
the South Pole okay so that's the
direction of the force out of the north
into the south end try to put two
magnets together especially if they're
the bar shaped magnet right try to put
them together if the poles are different
right if you have a North Pole and a
South Pole and you put them together
what's gonna happen they will attract
each other they will pull towards each
other and they will stick to each other
right if the poles are the same you put
North Pole and North Pole together right
they will repel each other they will
repel each other so north and north
don't like each other right they will
push away from each other they will
repel from each other okay so remember
that's what we were talking about before
if the poles are different differents
attract opposites attract and that's
what we talked about before it's a very
interesting idea but similarity if
they're the same they will repel each
other they will push away from each
other okay let's move on to our reading
skill chart the reading skill chart our
main idea is the properties of a magnet
we're talking about a magnet what's
special about a magnet why do we study
magnets what's interesting about them
those are the properties that we're
talking about we want to know the
features or what about a magnet that's
interesting there are many details that
we can use to talk about
the properties the magnet many specific
properties of the magnet those are our
details we have three in the chart in
the chart we need to fill in the blanks
we have four blanks
these are our words attract repel wood
and rubber it's over here magnets do not
attract things made of so one property
of magnets is that they attract some
things but they do not attract other
things magnets do not do not attract
things made of what what things down
here are not attracted by magnets
attract that's a verb not a noun
repelled that's another verb not a noun
ah here's a noun would here's another
noun
rubber we're looking for two things
actually and we could put them in there
right so we could put wood or rubber in
a and we can also put wood or rubber in
B in this case we have rubber and we
have wood so magnets do not attract
things made of rubber wood plastic etc
etc means and so on things like that
right rubber wood plastic those types of
things are not attracted to magnets over
here we have another detail about
magnets another feature if you put
together put together two poles that are
different that are different so for
example South and North if you put South
and North together what will happen they
will what each other will they repel
each other or will they attract each
other remember we talked about opposites
attract south and north are opposites
they are different different means
opposite so they will attract each other
opposites attract if however on the
other hand on the other side if you put
together two poles that are the same
that are the same they will what if you
put north and North together will they
attract no they'll do the opposite of
that they will repel they will repel
they will push away from each other and
they will not touch it's very difficult
to get a North Pole of one magnet to
touch the North Pole of another
Magne if you're very strong you can do
it and if the magnets aren't strong if
the magnets are weak you can do it but
if the magnets are strong it's really
hard to do it it's very interesting
that's another experiment to see how
strong a magnet is because magnets can
be weak and they can be strong as well
okay let's move on here we have our
reading comprehension questions how well
did you remember the reading let's take
a look at these questions here first one
number one magnets will not important
remember pay attention to whether the
sentence is positive or negative in this
case it's a negative sentence magnets
will not attract things made of what
here we have iron plastic magnets okay
so we know that magnets attract iron
right so that's they will attract we're
looking for negative not attract so
that's not the right answer because
magnets will attract iron not will not
attract iron that's not correct magnets
will not attract plastic that's true
that's our answer right there will not
attract things made of magnets that
doesn't make sense right there because
and it's not true because magnets will
attract other things but we don't say
things are made of magnets magnets are
made of metal it's not a it's not a
thing that we say this thing is made of
them of magnets we say it's made of iron
or it's made of steel right iron and
steel are magnets those are that that's
the metal that makes a magnet so see is
not the correct answer
magnets will not attract things made of
plastic that's what we talked about
before
number two magnets can attract can can
attract they will pull towards them
objects a without touching them be made
from rubber see but never repel objects
which is a correct answer let's go over
them magnets can attract objects without
touching them remember we talked about
that I said that if you're very careful
you can take a magnet and a steel spoon
and without touching it you can make
that spoon follow the magnet or if you
have a piece of paper you can put the
spoon on top and the magnet underneath
and you can make that spoon move around
the piece of paper
not touching but they're still attracted
to each other and that's what a saying
they don't touch but they're still
attracted so magnets can attract objects
without touching them that's true what
about B magnets can attract objects made
from rubber no we're talking about that
plastic wood rubber etc those types of
things are not attracted by magnets how
about see but never repel objects
magnets can attract objects but can
never repay objects that's not true
because a magnet is an object right an
object a magnet is a type of object so
magnets do repel each other so C is not
true either okay let's move on to number
three and number three we have the same
poles remember what time at North Pole
and South Pole the same poles of the
magnet will repel so north and north
will repel but ABC different poles will
attract so North Pole and South Pole
will attract that's true and that's our
answer right the same poles of a magnet
will repel each other different poles
will attract each other yes let's look
at B and C for practice B is magnets
cannot attract steel or iron no we
talked about that magnets do attract
sorry so we'd have to change that right
so that's not true see different poles
will also repel different poles so South
and North will also repel they'll
attract and repel no they only do one
thing they only attract so again C is
not I the correct answer either as we
saw a is a correct answer the same poles
of a magnet will repel south and South
will repel north and north will repel
each other but different poles will
attract north and south poles will
attract to each other four magnets will
attract objects made of steel why why
will magnets attract objects made of
steel because why remember what we
talked about a they have the same poles
steel is not not all steel is magnetized
it's not a steel is not a magnet by
itself
right so a steel doesn't have poles by
itself so that's not correct B steel has
iron in it aha remember we talked about
humans first discovered iron then they
the made tools and weapons out of iron
and they discovered how to make steel
using iron so steel has iron in it that
is true and C steel attracts iron no
that's that's weird
there's iron in steel so that's not the
right answer right so the right answer
magnets will attract objects made of
steel why because steel has iron in it
that's why magnets will attract it iron
is attracted by magnets so anything that
has iron in it will be attracted by
magnets so that's why steel that's the
reason why okay let's move on here to
our chart that we saw this chart before
do you remember what we talked about
before
do you remember these labels what do
magnets attract so if you have a magnet
what can you attract with your magnet
these are things that are attractable or
that you can attract these are things
that are not attractable or you cannot
do not attract with a magnet let's take
a look at these what are these remember
what these are these are buttons what
kind of buttons can be attracted by a
magnet
of course whoa do you see that spinning
in iron buttons are attracted by magnets
what about these these are buttons to
what kind of buttons are they they are
not attracted whoa here we got this as a
circle thing again plastic buttons they
are plastic buttons they are not
attracted by magnets over here we have a
this one of course we're talking about a
spoon
what kind of spoon is it what is it made
of oh we have the steel spoon that's
circling on in there okay the steel
spoon is attracted by magnets what about
these these look like they're spoons too
right what are they made out of
do you remember that's right plastic
spoons plastic spoons are not attracted
by magnets down here we have a little
firetruck it's kind of a car right it's
a vehicle
it's made out of steel so a steel car is
attracted by magnets over here this is a
car - it's a little toy car what's it
made out of do you remember it's made
out of wood a wooden car is not
attracted by a magnet so plastic and
wood are not attracted by magnets of
course rubber and other things like this
are not attracted by magnets over here
iron steel and steel because steel has
iron in it
these things are attracted by magnets
okay well that was a very interesting
lesson I was interested to learn about
magnets as well I hope you learned a lot
of interesting things about magnets
they're really fun to play with and it's
very interesting to notice how magnets
are used it's good to read about magnets
to read some more about magnets see how
they were used and when they were
discovered and how they are important to
people ok well that wraps it up for
today we'll see you guys next time take
care everybody
American Textbook Reading | Science 02