ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

Part 1 Life Science
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 01
01. [What Animals Need to Grow: https://youtu.be/saVLZJQyiLcâ€‹](science-2-01.md)

==What Animals Need to Grow==
Animals need many things to live. First,animals need oxygen to breathe. Oxygen has no color and is made by plants. Second, animals need food to get energy. Some animals eat plants. Some animals eat other animals. And also there are animals that eat both plants and animals. Third, animals need to drink water to stay alive. Last, animals need shelters. Shelters help to protect animals from danger and keep them safe. For example, birds live in nests. They store their eggs in the nests and the eggs hatch in the nests. If animals do not have oxygen, food, water, and shelter, they could become extinct.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart are you guys ready to
learn about animals let's get started in
this lesson lesson 1 we're going to
learn what animals need to grow what
animals need to grow so you will
discover animals need food they need
shelter they need oxygen and they need
water so all of these animals need these
things in order to grow and if you think
about it were animals too right we also
need these things in order to grow let's
talk about these things in more detail
first of all we saw that animals need
shelter shelter of course is a place
where animals an animal can be safe this
looks like a shelter it looks like a
tree right but inside the tree is a
snare oh space where an animal can use
it as its home maybe a wolf or a fox can
live in there I don't know about a bear
a bear is really big so maybe this is a
little small for a bear but this could
be a good shelter for an animal to live
in animals need shelter because it rains
it gets cold they need some type of home
so a shelter is like a home and we all
need a home don't we we all need some
place to be safe or an animal can be
safe ok let's take a look at another
thing another thing is a nest a nest is
kind of like a shelter to a nest is a
place where birds live so a nest as you
can see in the tree here birds make
their homes high up in trees and it's a
bird's shelter so a bird will use this a
nest this is also a bird's shelter it is
basically their home it protects them it
keeps them safe from animals walking
around on the ground right so
bird can take care of her baby birds
safely in a nest and that's their
shelter let's move on to the next one
okay another thing that all animals need
to grow is oxygen we need to breathe
right and we breathe oxygen oxygen is a
gas that is necessary for people and
animals to live we need oxygen to
breathe oxygen has no color we can't see
it it's all around us in the room here
in the room where you are there is
oxygen in the air you can't see it you
can feel it if you go like this really
quickly you can feel the air and in the
air is oxygen that we need to breathe
our bodies need oxygen if we're diving
for example underwater how do we get
oxygen well we need to breathe through
the equipment we need to breathe right
if we breathe that means to take in
oxygen so even if we're underwater
and we're scuba diving right we have
equipment that gives us oxygen so we can
breathe underwater
we're not fish right we don't have gills
but we can use equipment to go
underwater and swim around looks like
fun if you have a chance try that out
try it out scuba diving okay next we
have another verb to hatch now some
animals hatch to hatch means to come out
of the egg like this crocodile or
alligator here is coming outside of the
egg it's hatching not all animals hatch
hatch means to come out of an egg did
you come out of an egg no you didn't
come out of an egg mammals are born
without eggs we're born live we don't
have eggs when we come out of our
mother's bodies right we don't have eggs
but some animals like reptiles birds and
some fish they will come out of eggs
they need to hatch okay so to hatch
another verb is to store animals some
animals will store things what will they
store
or means to keep something for future
use you've probably seen in the movies
the squirrel right the squirrel running
around and the squirrel is running after
nuts right nu T s so squirrels will
store nuts and squirrels are kind of you
know the little animals the little free
animals with the big tail they will go
and they will take nuts and they won't
eat them right away they'll put them in
their shelter in their home they will
store them for when it's cold and when
the winter there's no food so they store
they keep something for future use they
keep it for later ok so that's to store
another verb is to protect some animals
of course all animals need protection
right some animals have built-in
protection built in they have it as part
of their bodies built-in protection
built-in built-in protection this shell
is protecting the turtle duck duck duck
right
it's very hard and the turtle will not
be harmed because the shell protects the
turtle protect of course means to cover
and to make something safe so if you
look at this turtle kind of an
interesting character he's very safe
inside of his shell he is protected ok
let's move on
extinct when if an animal is extinct it
is no longer in existence but think
about that if all the animals of the
same type are gone they all die then
they're extinct what animals can you
think of that have gone extinct some
very famous animals if you think of
dinosaurs di n o s a you are s dinosaurs
dinosaurs this is a dinosaur there are
no more dinosaurs in the world they are
all extinct they are no longer in
existence they've all died so we can say
dinosaurs are
stinked okay okay let's take a look at
our chart here we have a chart what
animals need to live and we see
different pictures here we see shelter
this is very cute little guy right in
the side this inside the tree he's just
looking out of his hole he is inside his
home right whether there's oxygen
there's water and there's food let's
take a look at this guy who's in his
home he looks pretty cute let's take a
look at him closely okay oh here we've
got another maybe his friend squirrel
coming into a tree and this is where his
home is see that is a good and look at
that he has a nut he's storing nuts
inside of his home inside of his shelter
so this is a very good video that shows
us two things one it shows us the
shelter where the squirrel lives that's
his home and it also shows us how the
squirrel stores food you notice the
squirrel went into his home to get a nut
that's where he keeps or stores his food
okay he's pretty cute isn't he it looks
like he's very very hungry he keeps
eating that nut very well well that's
good he is kind of turning it around
okay squirrel have you had enough oh
then he runs away okay good bye a
squirrel okay let's move on we'll come
on over to oxygen now of course this is
underwater this picture shows underwater
but we can see the air rising up
probably some scuba divers are
underwater and the air is going up from
their tanks let's take a look huh
there's a scuba diver right there we can
see the air coming up from his tank what
he's breathing out so all these little
bubbles here all these little bubbles
are the air or oxygen that he's
breathing out and it's going up into the
into the water and this is very
interesting of course all the air that
this person needs is in the tank and he
has a hose coming around that goes to
his mouth like we saw in the other
picture and he's breathing from this
tank so scuba diving is a lot of fun
right and you can stay underwater for a
very long time because you take the
oxygen you need with you underwater
okay coming back to our chart here we
have food this is also what animals need
to live right so here we have a picture
of a squirrel looks like could be the
friend of the other squirrel we saw in
his shelter right this squirrel
wow he's really he's really eating that
that not that's his food of course
squirrels get nuts from trees usually
trees and other plants when squirrels
will get all sorts of different kinds of
nuts they will store them in their home
or of course they have to eat them
also every day as well wow this little
guy is really energetic isn't he he was
you really ate that nut very quickly it
seems to be very hungry okay well let's
move on the other thing of course all
animals need water imagine can you go
throughout the day without drinking any
water you feel very thirsty don't you
it's important to drink a lot of water
every day just like these zebras let's
take a look these are zebras in the wild
and of course they are drinking water
from a puddle or a large puddle here I
wouldn't really call it a lake but as
you can see many zebras have to come
down to these puddles every day to get
water to drink however it's a little
dangerous because sometimes lions and
other animals that eat zebras will stay
here waiting for the zebras to come down
because animals need to eat right they
need food as we just saw but animals
also need water so it's very interesting
in Africa this is kind of an interesting
relationship right animals that come to
water have to watch out for other
animals that want to eat them as food
okay so water and food okay let's go
over the exercise now our job here is to
go over each word we have the definition
and we have the words up here we have to
match the definition to the proper work
let's start with number one a place
where birds live remember we've talked
about that it's a special kind of
shelter is it hatch breathe oxygen store
nest or shelter don't choose shelter
because birds have a special kind of
shelter do you remember what it was
that's right it's
nest birds have a special kind of
shelter they call a nest it's up in a
tree and they build their nest okay so
number two a place where an animal can
be safe a place where an animal can be
safe I'll give you another hint a nest
is a type of this thing what is it it's
a shelter okay
it's where an animal can be safe it's a
shelter it's an animal's house where
they can be safe from the weather from
other animals they have safety in their
shelter number three to keep something
for future use okay so if you get some
food you can eat it now or you can put
it away and save it for later to keep
something for future use that means to
store okay to store something you notice
I used a different word there I said to
save so we can use keep we can also use
save to save something for future use to
keep something for future use also to
store something for future use so all
these verbs have the similar meaning to
keep to save to store don't use it now
keep it you might need it later that's
very important to do think about that
especially for human beings what do we
store for future use very common thing
we save for future use is money right
don't spend all your money now save some
store some for future use okay let's
move on number four a gas that is
necessary for animals to live so
remember a gas it's in the air around us
and we need it to breathe what gas is
that from our words of course if you
picked oxygen that's correct gas is an
oxygen that we need to use we it's
necessary for animals to live if we go
underwater we need to take our oxygen
with us in a tank right as we saw on the
video number five is to come out of an
egg so it's a verb to come out of an egg
when babies
some babies some animals will come out
of an egg and when they're when they're
very young when they're just babies what
is that process called
that of course is called to hatch to
hatch they come out of an egg number six
to take in oxygen to take it in right
that of course is to breathe so breathe
with me right breathe deeply
right breathe in breathe out okay we all
need to breathe in order to survive we
need oxygen in the air around us okay so
that wraps up these words here let's
take a look at our chart here we have an
interesting chart here it's a little bit
of a different subject we're talking
about what animals need to grow animals
and plants are the natural world right
and animals use plants in order to grow
howdy animals use plants but how do
animals use plants there are many ways
we can see four major ways in this chart
the first way we can see animals live in
plants it doesn't mean inside the plant
it means surrounded by plants for
example you can see these chimpanzees
right they are living in plants they're
living around plants let's take a look
at the video here Wow look at these guys
whoa he looks very looks like a very
tough guy right he's saying hey I've got
something for you right okay all right I
don't know what he's doing but you can
see they are living in plants you can
see this little hole here and another
one here they probably go inside here
they use these plants for protection
because other animals that might attack
the chimpanzees can't see the chimps
inside the the plants so some animals
will live inside plants it doesn't mean
inside the plant
it means surrounded by plants okay in
another way
animals use plants to make homes before
we saw how birds make nests that's their
shelter here is a good example of a nest
well when birds birds don't just find
nests they make
Nest's they take branches they take
branches branches are parts of trees of
course you can also say they take twigs
twigs twigs are very small pieces of
branches and that's what birds will pick
up and they will get a lot of twigs
they'll put them together and shape them
like a bowl and that's their nest and
you can see there are eggs inside the
nest let's take a look at the video here
oh look at that
this little baby bird these baby birds
have hatched from those eggs and now
they're in the nest mama bird comes
along and she's watching over her babies
and sometimes she'll bring them food see
little baby birds like I'm hungry I'm
hungry give me food
right so umm mama just ate that piece of
food okay but mama will protect her
babies she will bring them food and you
can see that they're very hungry their
mouths are open and they're waiting for
food okay let's move on so animals also
hide in plants we talked a little bit
about that with the chimpanzees that the
chimpanzees will go into the forest or
in hide but we can also see another
example and this is a good example of a
deer right a deer is laying down we have
tall grass there's a little baby deer
over here let's take a look so as we can
see it's we can see the momma deer very
quickly but it's we didn't see the baby
deer very quickly we only saw the back
part but also in the head pops up right
so these deer can use the grass to hide
in when they lay down other animals
can't see them mama deer though she's
looking up around because she wants to
make sure nothing's coming right she
wants to make sure her baby is safe so
she's keeping an eye out but baby deer
can can lie down in the grass nobody can
see it so animals can hide in plants
finally our last picture here the very
common way that many many animals use
plants is to eat plants right we here we
have a video let's take a look at a
video of course birds will eat plants
too look at this bird he's got
nut in his beak and it's kind of hard
he's trying to chew it he's got a very
strong beak so he can he can crush that
that seed and he can eat it of course
many other animals will eat plants too
the deer that we just saw they'll eat
that grass deer eat trees right cows if
you think of cows they'll move along and
eat the grass in the field so many many
animals need plants for food ok let's
move on here now here we have an
exercise choose the things that animals
are getting in the pictures what are
these animals getting in the pictures
in the first picture here you see the
bird it's a bird with a very fancy
yellow chest
what is this bird getting you can see
that he's holding on to something this
is a very interesting looking shelter
this is a very interesting looking nest
and of course I just said shelter this
bird is getting shelter in this picture
because this bird made a very
interesting looking nest here and it's
getting shelter ok let's move on
what is the animal in this picture can
you see it you see this tail right here
what is that a tail of that is a tail of
a whale
right and what is the whale doing whales
are not fish ok whales need to come up
to the surface of the water because they
can't breathe underwater they have to
come up to the surface to where the air
is and then they breathe and looks like
a whale is another whale is here and
it's breathing out right so what is what
are these whales getting of course they
are getting oxygen they have to come up
to the surface of the water then they
can breathe and they're getting oxygen
ok finally we have a cute panda bear
here right this panda bear is using
plants what is the panda bear using the
plants for shelter or food in this
picture obviously he's eating the plant
so he's using the plant for food ok so
just to wrap up the birds using a
getting shelter from the plant the
whales are getting oxygen and the panda
bear is getting food
okay so these are things that animals
need to grow and to live okay let's go
over our true/false questions Circle T
for true F for false number one a nest
helps to protect young birds so remember
we were talking about the birds in their
nest right and we've said that a nest is
a type of what a nest is a type of
shelter what did we say about shelters
shelters a shelter keeps an animal's
safe so a nest helps to protect young
words to protect means to keep safe and
birds use nests don't they so this
sentence is true it's true a nest helps
to protect young birds a shelter keeps
animals safe a nest is a type of shelter
okay good so number two to store means
to come out of an egg so when an animal
comes out of an egg that means to store
right no it doesn't right the store
means to save something for future use
to come out of an egg what is that that
is to hatch so we would have to change
this to hatch right do you remember we
talked about that word to hatch means to
come out of an egg so obviously this
sentence is false right okay so we would
have to change that number three oxygen
has many different colors we talked
about oxygen before right I said it's in
the air around us can we see it no we
can't see it it's invisible we cannot
see it so therefore it doesn't have any
color there's no color to oxygen so this
is false right it doesn't have many
different colors okay well let's take a
break here and we'll come back and do
the reading okay let's go over the
reading now in this reading passage we
can see the topic sentence is the first
sentence right here
animals need many things to live that's
our topic sentence
we know our subject is animals and our
idea is that they need many things to
live that's our idea our subject is
animals what's the idea about animals
they need many things to live in this
reading passage we will see four things
that animals need to live first the
number one what's number one we can find
that easily first means number one
animals need oxygen that's the first
thing that animals need they need oxygen
to breathe
remember oxygen is the gas how do we get
it the verb is to breathe we see another
sentence about oxygen giving us more
details about oxygen
what is oxygen like it has no color and
oxygen is made by plants okay so plants
will produce oxygen and animals will
breathe that oxygen so of course plants
are very important in another way to
animals okay let's move on second the
second thing animals need to live we can
see that right away that's number two
animals need food to get energy why do
we need food we need food to get energy
so it's very interesting we have a
pattern here and up first animals need
oxygen to breathe second animals need
food to get energy right so it's a very
good pattern we can see in this reading
passage
some animals eat plants so what kind of
food plants is one type of food some
animals eat other animals right remember
I talked about the Zebras at the
watering hole they have to be careful
because lions will go to the watering
hole to wait for their food to come to
them so some animals eat other animals
also also and also there are animals
that eat both plants and animals really
there are some animals that eat both
plants and other animals what animal
would do that you're looking at one
you are one too we eat both plants and
animals at our dinner table right we'll
probably have vegetables eat lots of
vegetables plants and you'll probably
have other animals like chicken right
chickens very delicious right
that's another animal right so there are
animals that eat both some animals only
eat plants some animals only eat other
animals meat and some animals like us
eat both okay third what's the third
thing that animals need animals need to
drink water we all need to drink water
to stay alive drink water to stay alive
again it's following the pattern we need
this thing in order to do that thing
oxygen to breathe food to get energy
water to stay alive last last is also
for right third last that would be
fourth right but because it's the last
one
majima right we can say it's the last
one last animals needs shelters shelters
why to protect them
shelters to protect them shelters help
to protect animals from danger and can
keep them safe okay so those are the
four things we were talking about that
animals need in order to live and to
grow for example birds live in nests
this is a type of shelter they store
their eggs in the nests and the eggs
hatch in the nests so birds of course
will make a nest they will lay their
eggs they will keep their eggs safe in
their shelter which is a nest later on
those eggs will hatch into baby birds if
animals do not have oxygen food water
and shelter those are our four things
one two three four
they could become extinct right so
that's very true these are the things
the four things that animals need we
need oxygen if we don't have oxygen we
will die if we don't have food
we will die if we don't have water we
will die if we don't have shelter we
won't be safe and we could die right so
if we don't have these things they could
become extinct all the animals could die
let's take a look at a picture here this
is a picture of some baby birds right
mama bird is giving them food they have
shelter
mama Birds giving them food they have
air because they're breathing the air
around them okay so they have all the
things they need to grow and that they
need to survive so these birds will not
go extinct as long as they have those
things that they need now let's take a
look at the main idea and details as we
saw in the topic sentence this reading
passage was about what animals need what
animals need to live so we have our
words down here shelter oxygen and water
those are three of the things that
animals need how do we put them into our
chart number four is food a one of these
things this is made by plants and has no
color so two important things one made
by plants and two it has no color these
two things define what we're looking for
right we talked about in the air we
can't see it it has no color we also
mentioned before that it's made by
plants what is it of course if you chose
oxygen that's correct it's a gas it's
made by plants and has no color food is
already done for us food animals need
this to get energy what do animals use
for with food they use it to get energy
over here B we don't know what that is
we need to look at the definition
animals get it by drinking so when we're
drinking what do we usually get of
course we get water water animals need
water in order to live finally this is a
place where animals can be safe they can
be safe in this place what is it of
course if you chose shelter that would
be correct
animals need shelter to protect
them from other animals and also from
the weather so this is a place where
they can be safe okay let's move on
let's answer the reading comprehension
questions correct answer number one
where does a bird live does a bird live
in hatch does a bird live in a nest or
does a bird live in a store right
actually two of these words are verbs
right this is a verb this is a verb this
is a noun right this one is a verb and a
verb so if you think about it you could
just answer it on it the grammatical
terms by itself where does a bird live
we're looking for a noun a place is a
noun so of course our only possible
answer would be B of course a nest is a
type of shelter hatch means to come out
of an egg store means to keep something
for future use so obviously when we talk
about where does a bird live a place
well a place as a nest it's a noun
right okay number two how can a shelter
help an animal we've talked about this a
lot haven't we you should know the
answer let's go over the possible
choices keep it safe yeah we've talked
about this a lot so keep it safe is the
correct answer let's go over B and C
just for practice B to give it food
shelter gives an animal food no that's
not true the animal has to go out and
get food now the animal can store food
in the shelter right but he doesn't go
there first to get the food he has to go
somewhere else bring the food back to
the shelter and store it there see how
can a shelter help an animal to make it
extinct oh right we talked about an
animal needs food water air and shelter
so that it won't go extinct so that it
does not become extinct so of course C
would not be a correct answer a is the
correct answer
shelters keep animals safe okay question
number three some animals own
eat other animals so we're talking about
what animals eat I remember we were
talking about those three types of
animals right some animals eat other
animals some animals eat plants and some
animals eat both animals and plants in
this case some animals only eat other
animals and a some animals only eat
oxygen eat oxygen
we don't eat oxygen right we breathe
oxygen that would be very strange right
if we could eat oxygen right that's
crazy okay so that's not the correct
answer that's kind of silly be some
animals only eat plants right we talked
about that right some animals eat other
animals some animals only eat plants
that's true so B is our correct answer
let's take a look at C some animals only
drink water that's not true because of
only not only drink water remember food
and water are different yes we do need
water but we also need food we can't
survive if we only drink water we also
need food to get energy water we drink
to help our bodies grow to help the the
process of our body to help blood move
through our body we need water
but we also need food so we can't
survive if we only drink water so C of
course would not be correct either we
saw that B is our answer
number four what do birds need to stop
them from becoming extinct now remember
it's not just Birds right it's all
animals so don't be confused right it's
all animals what do all what what do all
animals need to stop them from becoming
extinct a they need eggs young and nests
is that true well Birds you know do they
need eggs they make eggs right
they then the eggs hatch into young and
and just nests there's nothing else here
remember animals need four things in
order to survive we only see one thing
nests
could be shelter shelter is one of those
four things so a is not the correct
answer
what about B they need other animals to
eat them
do you see birds eating other animals
sometimes you do some big birds like
vultures and eagles they do eat other
animals but we also saw a video of a
bird eating a seed so some it's
interesting some birds eat only plants
some birds eat only other animals right
that's interesting but so this isn't
true for all birds right our all animals
right so that's not true they also need
many other things let's look at see see
now that's an interesting one they need
water they need oxygen they need food
and they need shelter there's are four
things right those are the four things
that birds and all animals need water
oxygen food and shelter that's what
we're talking about in this lesson the
four things that all animals need in
order to live so see of course is our
right answer our correct answer okay
let's move on to the slide our last
slide is kind of like a puzzle we're
looking at our chart we saw this chart
before that remember we just talked
about the four things that animals need
to live let's take a look at these
different pictures and see what they are
first of all we see a cute little animal
in a tree what is this animal what is
this animal represent or what where is
this animal what place is this animal
remember he looks safe inside this area
he looks very safe he of course is in a
shelter so that's one thing one of the
four things that animals need in order
to live over here it's under water right
we can see these bubbles coming up this
is a gas right what is in that gas that
we need to breathe what is that element
that element of course is oxygen so we
need oxygen also to live down here these
zebras are lined up they're drinking
what are they drinking they're drinking
water that's another thing that all
animals need to live finally over here
we have our friend the squirrel
he has what are these things they look
like nuts almost they're not berries
they're colorful like berries but
they're not they aren't nuts and he's
got his hand on one of them right so
he's very happy he's got a lot of what
what does he have a lot of there he's
got a lot of food so this squirrel is
very happy he has a lot of food he can
eat some and he can store some for later
use probably in his shelter so we have
many things here for things that animals
need in order to live ok well that wraps
up our lesson for today hope you've
learned a lot it's very interesting
talking about animals and remember we're
animals too we need all of these things
as well ok well we'll see you guys next
time
take care
