# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1 | Lessons 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB)

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 09 | Natural Resourcesâ€‹](https://youtu.be/lf0Hkng-Jlcâ€‹â€‹)
== Natural Resources ==
There are many natural resources. We use natural resources in different ways every day. Air and water are natural resources. People need clean water and air to live. We need to breathe clean air and drink clean water to keep us healthy. Dirty water and air are harmful for us. Oil
is another natural resource. Oil helps a car move and cars help people travel. Minerals are also natural resources. Minerals come from rocks and soil.Gold, silver, and copper are minerals. Gold is the color of the sun. Silver is shiny gray and copper is orange. Wood is also a natural resource. Wood comes from trees. We can use wood to make paper.

Transcript


[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading we're going over lesson
9 today and we're continuing with the
subject of Earth Sciences lesson 9 is
talking about natural resources so we
will discover in this lesson different
types of natural resources so what
exactly is a resource that's one of the
words that world will study in this
lesson but just very quickly a resource
is something we use from nature right
and we've got a video here we're going
to see a video of what we can use from
nature now if you take a look at this
picture you probably see something odd
looking or strange looking and that of
course would be these windmills in the
background they are not natural of
course we see trees we have grass we
have an open area open field by the way
if we look at this picture we can see
all sorts of resources but the resource
we're gonna focus on of course is wind
let's take a look at the video here the
video here that we're seeing is wind and
what is wind doing wind is actually a
resource we can use it we can use it to
get power from it so if we erect if we
build a windmill like this in in nature
or in the in the plains what happens is
that wind that we're using as a natural
resource will spin that turbine will
spin those blades and it will create
electricity it will generate electricity
and we can use that for a home but if
you think about it actually all of this
we're using all of these things for
resources we're using the ground the
soil as a resource to grow plants right
so there's a lot of different things
from nature that we use and we call
these resources a natural resource we're
talking about this of course is
something from nature that people can
use water air wood and minerals are
natural resources so like I said in that
picture and in this
picture two when we look all of these
things we can use as a resource we can
use the ground to grow crops we can use
the trees to build houses we can use the
wind to capture their energy and turn
that energy into electricity
so there's we're surrounded by natural
resources we're surrounded by Nature
we can use those resources to help make
our lives better but of course we have
to be careful about using those
resources we can't use too much too fast
and we have to make sure that we leave
enough for other or reasons or other
people that will come after us also so
that's an interesting thing but we use
all sorts of different resources or
materials as resources let's take a look
a mineral one of the things that I
talked about on the previous side is
minerals you probably you of course know
water air and in soil you know that but
what exactly is a mineral this might be
a different word for you
a mineral though is very important in
our daily lives we may not think about
it but we use minerals all the time a
mineral is basically a substance that
comes from rock and soil minerals are
non living things but be careful our a
mineral is different from a rock a
mineral is a certain type of chemical
element that is that comes all together
in rock okay now this is a rock right a
rock is not a mineral a rock is made up
of different kinds of minerals all
clumped together that's a rock if we
take that mineral apart and we just have
the one mineral then we call that that's
the mineral okay so it's interesting
that a rock is not a mineral let's take
a look at a video of a mineral now it
might not be an exciting video because
minerals don't do anything they are
nonliving things they don't move but
let's take a look at the video okay this
of course is a mineral and we can see it
through a magnifying glass and if you
take a magnifying glass and you look at
minerals some minerals are very
beautiful and very interesting to look
at because they have certain shapes they
have geometrical shape
which are very interesting to look at
you know some of this this you know this
is an okay mineral but some minerals
have crystals right and and all
different kinds of shapes different
kinds of colors some of them can be very
beautiful especially if you look at them
with a magnifying glass by the way this
is a magnifying glass magnifying glass
is my head in the way magnifying glass
okay and we put glass here because what
does it do it's a piece of glass which
magnifies it magnifies it makes it
larger so we call that a magnifying
glass and we can see small things with
the magnifying glass and we can take a
really good look at minerals with a
magnifying glass
okay another type of resource that we
use that I talked about already a little
bit is wood and of course wood comes
from trees we cut them down chop the
branches off and what we have left is
wood the material from trees used to
make paper furniture etc etc includes
houses walls or high roofs a long time
ago before people really started using
steel or concrete wood was the primary
source for making homes most homes were
made from wood but again we've got to be
careful about using too much wood we
have to leave some trees in the forest
to grow and make new trees we can't take
them all at the same time so we have to
be careful about how much wood we use at
a certain time of course it doesn't look
good either if we cut down a whole
forest what people will do now they'll
go in the forest and they'll take a tree
here and a tree there they won't cut
down the whole forest they'll cut down
trees here and there and leave most of
the trees standing and that's good
practice that's good policy but anyway
wood is a type of natural resource okay
another resource is gold now gold we
were just talking about minerals right
Gold is a type of mineral it's a very
famous type of mineral why is it so
famous because gold was used from
for thousands of years it still is used
as money but of course we don't usually
use gold as money because it's if you
put in your pocket well it's very heavy
to carry around it's also very expensive
we see that gold is a precious what does
precious mean precious means expensive
right it's very expensive it's very
valuable why is gold precious one of the
main reasons is because gold is very
rare I've heard before that if you took
all the gold that has ever been found
and mined in the world you would only be
able to cover a tennis court
one tennis court up to a certain height
with that gold think about that that's
not a lot of gold so gold is rare that's
why it's very precious okay it's also
yellow the color is yellow it's bright
yellow it's a shiny yellow and the
reason that's one more reason why gold
is precious because it's very beautiful
when people see gold they say wow shiny
it looks attractive so people are
attracted to it and one more reason why
gold is is precious is because gold is
soft people who work with gold can
easily change its shape it's very easy
to work with so it's soft and it doesn't
shatter you can make it into a ring of
course I have a silver ring I don't have
a cold ring no I don't have that much
money maybe but not anyway Gold can be
made into rings into earrings I wouldn't
wear earrings or necklaces sometimes you
see guys with big heavy gold necklaces
on so gold is also used a lot for
jewelry okay so gold a precious yellow
mineral gold is used for jewelry as I've
just said
rings earrings necklaces bracelets all
types of different jewelry so this is
why gold is precious and it's very
famous used for money used for jewelry
okay also another famous type of mineral
is silver now silver is similar to gold
it's also been used for money it's also
used for jewelry but it's not as
as colorful as gold and it's not as rare
silver is more common than gold so it's
not as expensive silver we can see the
color we can say it's a shiny gray
mineral like I said my ring is silver
right so it's a shiny gray colored
material as you can see here silver is
used for making knives and forks in fact
we have a word in English that we
usually use to talk about that and we
call it silver ware
silverware silverware if you go to
somebody's house and they talk about
where is the silverware they're talking
about the knives the forks and the
spoons so knives forks and spoons made
from silver we call that silverware now
rich families in the past their knives
forks and spoons were actually made of
silver so that's why they called it
silverware and of course silver is also
used sometimes for money it's also used
for jewelry okay but silver is another
very common type of mineral another very
common type of mineral that's similar in
style as gold and silver is copper of
course copper is is a very is a lot more
common than gold and copper is an orange
mineral why do we use copper by the way
copper is also used as money a long time
ago they used copper also as money so
the most expensive mineral we've talked
about we can go gold is the most
expensive right Gold is the most then we
have silver that's in the middle
oops I forgot my L silver is here my V
is very big
okay okay silver and then we have copper
that's in the middle okay and then
copper is very common it is also the
least expensive copper is common it's
also the least expensive so we could say
least expensive and that's important
because I'll explain in a minute but
copper is the least expensive
Gold is the most expensive silver is in
the middle okay so copper is an orange
mineral it's orange okay if you take a
look at it electricity travels through
copper so although we did use copper a
lot for for money and we still do if you
look at the American money the penny the
penny is made of copper so you know it's
a very small coin but you know it's not
that valuable copper is the least
expensive but copper the the most we use
copper for is for wires electricity when
we want our electricity to come from our
plug in the wall to our computer or to
our electronic device that wire is made
of copper now by the way it's
interesting to note we can use gold
silver or copper to move electricity in
fact gold is a much better mineral for
removing electricity electricity moves
much more quickly and efficiently
through gold than it does through copper
but we don't use gold in our wires why
not because it's the most expensive okay
if you had gold wiring in your home your
home would be worth a lot of money and
it would be too expensive so we have to
use copper copper is good enough to use
to move electricity through by the way
we could also use silver but again
silver is too expensive to just use in a
wire so most of the time we use copper
in in electronic devices or in the
wiring in our houses okay so let's move
on now we were talking about natural
resources before and I made the point
that you know we have to be careful when
we use natural resources we don't want
to harm the environment now things that
are harmful things that are harmful
cause harm some factories give off
harmful material into the air so if the
factories are using natural resources
they might be burning something another
natural resource that is not talked
about here is coal coal is another type
of mineral and perhaps a factory will
burn coal to produce electricity
what happens when you burn something you
get a lot of smoke right you get a lot
of smoke and if there's a lot of smoke
in the air that
is going up it's getting into the air
that's not good for the atmosphere we if
we breathe it that can be harmful to us
if it falls down and gets into our water
that can be harmful to us so we have to
be careful how we use Natural Resources
okay we want to protect the environment
we want to keep our environment clean we
don't want to cut down too many trees we
don't want to use up all the water we
want to keep most of our environment we
have to keep it clean clean of course
means not dirty right when you go home
if you've been playing outside and you
go home it's time to eat dinner your mom
looks at your hands and says hey your
hands are not clean they're dirty
okay so go clean your hands make get rid
of all the dirt all the pollution off
all the pollutants the dirt off of your
hands so clean air and water is good for
people of course if we breathe in clean
air that's very good for us right
there's no smoke in the air there's no
harmful substances in the air we need
clean air we also need clean water when
we drink water it has to be clean there
shouldn't be any harmful things in the
water that we drink okay
now let's take a look at a chart for
Natural Resources and these are a lot of
different types of Natural Resources
most of them we've covered some of them
we really didn't talk about but let's
talk about them now so we have very
interesting Natural Resources or lots of
different Natural Resources here first
let's talk about air we've talked about
air a little bit of course we use air
the primary use of areas to breathe so
we can keep living right
we need our air to be clean but we can
also use air especially the movement of
air which we call wind we can use that
to generate electricity so that we can
get and that's by the way that's a very
clean source of energy right we don't
have to burn anything to capture wind
energy and turn it into electricity the
next one a mineral we talked about
different types of mineral minerals we
talked about gold silver copper there
are some different types of minerals
pictured here let's take
look at a video of a certain type of
mineral here now this is a like I said
you know you take the magnifying glass
and you look at minerals right you have
different kinds of crystals here and
this is you know this is a very nice or
beautiful sample or example of a mineral
and of course it looks like somebody has
collected lots of different minerals and
they they're kind of showcasing it but
minerals occur naturally in rocks right
we can take them from nature and you
know even if it's not valuable or we're
not going to use it for anything we can
admire it for its beauty and we can
study it for its structure and its color
and its shapes it's very interesting or
a very beautiful thing that we can get
from the ground minerals okay animals we
didn't talk about animals as a natural
resource before but if you think about
it of course we can use animals as
natural resources most of us eat meat
right where do we get it we get it from
animals we can also use animals for
their skins right sometimes you see
leather a leather jacket is made from an
animal's skin so we use animals for
natural resources as well okay the next
one we use are trees and we talked about
that before this is a forest it's a very
thick forest as lots of trees here again
we shouldn't go in and cut down all the
trees right that would be terrible it
would look horrible and it would not be
good for the environment
so what companies are doing more and
more nowadays are going in and taking
out trees here and there they don't take
all the trees in an area they take trees
from different parts of the forest and
then leave most of the trees there so
that the forest continues to grow and
grow new trees and that's a more
responsible use of our natural resources
the next one on our chart is soil we
didn't talk about that we talked about
that in a previous lesson but soil of
course is a another type of natural
resource a very important natural
resource right because without soil we
can't grow plants that we eat right if
you like to eat Tomatoes you need soil
if you like to eat corn you'd have to
eat you need soy I don't have to eat
wait you need soil because we grow
these types of plants in soil so soil is
a very important natural resource and we
have to protect soil sometimes if we if
we cut down all the plants in an area
and there's a strong wind the wind can
blow that soil away and it's gone right
so we have to be careful about
protecting the soil because that we need
it in order to grow the food that we
need to eat to survive our final our
roundup of natural resources over here
is water and of course we obviously we
we drink water so we need water we drink
we should drink a lot of water every day
to keep our bodies healthy so we use
water for a natural resource in the most
important way is that we drink it but we
can also use water in other ways just
like we use moving air to generate
electricity we can also use moving water
to generate electricity and these are
called hydroelectric dams right so we
can get electricity from water as well
and we also need water to put into the
soil to grow our plants we also need
water to give to the animals that we
raise on farms
so water is a very very important
natural resource we use it for a lot of
different things okay let's move on to
the exercise kind of a comprehension
let's have a little test to go over the
words that we've just learned the
vocabulary our words that we're going to
use in this exercise we're gonna use
mineral copper wood silver gold and
natural resource now it's interesting to
take a look at this group of words we're
I'm going to single out natural resource
natural resource right here doesn't
belong on the same level as all of these
other words because natural resource
describes the large group and all these
other words fit inside that group right
natural resource is our umbrella word
it's our it's our word that describes
the entire group wood copper gold
mineral silver belong inside that
umbrella inside that group that is
defined by natural resource okay let's
go over the sentences here the
definition is an orange mineral which
electricity travels through now the
important
point here is orange because as I said
before electricity travels through
copper gold and silver right copper gold
and silver by the way mineral over here
is also an umbrella word because copper
gold and silver fit inside that work
right so natural resource mineral copper
if you're going to go on a like a chain
you have the biggest word natural
resource smaller word mineral inside
mineral copper silver gold okay so but
anyway we're talking about this
definition here and the important point
like I said is orange we if you got rid
of orange if you just said a mineral
which electricity travels to you could
choose copper gold or silver and that
would be correct but the key point is
orange is silver Orange no is gold
Orange no it's yellow is copper Orange
yes copper is orange so copper is the
only one that fits with that definition
that is their answer there because of
the color but it's interesting to note
that electricity will pass through all
of those three minerals okay number two
something from nature that people can
use something from nature sounds like
one of those big words those umbrella
words right something anything from
nature that you can use we call that a
natural resource that's our umbrella
where that's the biggest word that
encompasses all of those other small
words okay three a shiny gray mineral
which is used for making knives and
forks a shiny gray material is our key
part right here Jessop so I went too far
our shiny gray material shiny gray is
our color is and of course we're looking
at these three minerals here do we make
knives and forks from copper we could
but is copper shiny gray no do we make
knives and forks from gold well some
people actually do some very very rich
people do have gold knives and forks in
their houses but is gold shiny grey no
is silver shiny gray yes and actually
silver is the most common mineral which
is used
to make knives and forks and that's why
we call it silverware right so it's the
most common I mean we could use any one
of these minerals to make knives and
forks although I don't know of anybody
well actually some copper pots and pans
can be are common but a gold very rare
very expensive but silver is the most
common one so if you chose silver that's
correct but of course the the most
important part here is shiny gray the
color that's the color of silver okay
let's move on to four five and six four
is the material from trees used to make
paper furniture etc the material from
trees right before I said mineral is one
of our big words copper gold and silver
fit inside of mineral minerals are from
the ground wood does not fit underneath
mineral right would where it is would
come from wood comes from trees so
that's our answer the material from
trees and of course we make paper we
make furniture we make walls of our
house we make the floors on you know the
nice wood floor above the ondol you know
it's usually wood it's a nice nice look
to it so we use wood to make those types
of things five a precious we have two
key words here precious we also precious
no I'm just kidding okay we also have
yellow okay so we have a precious yellow
mineral of course our key word is yellow
because we're talking about mineral
remember copper gold and silver all
minerals silver is precious true copper
is precious but gold is the most
precious right okay Gold is the most
expensive and it's also yellow mineral
used for making jewelry which is used
for making jewelry of course we're
talking about gold
it gives it away by yellow and also by
precious gold is the most precious six a
substance that comes from rock and soil
and is a non living thing so some type
of substance that comes from the rock
okay and it also comes from the soil
there's little parts in the soil
actually minerals are are also good for
plants little little minerals not not
the ones that we saw in the video you a
plant wouldn't be able to
well plant might be able to use it over
time but
we also have minerals in our body right
and very small pieces and minerals I
would not recommend going out and and
eating a large piece of zinc right that
wouldn't be good for you but you in in
your food you have do have small
minerals small you do need zinc for
example for your body and if you take my
vitamin pills usually they have minerals
in those too and that's good for you
although these things are nonliving
there have come from rock and soil is a
nonliving thing these of course are
minerals so it's also important when you
take your vitamins in the morning your
vitamins should probably have some
minerals in it and by the way copper is
also something that our body uses right
we can eat copper don't go eating the
wires in your house that's crazy right
you also get electrocuted but we have
very very very small parts of copper
zinc and other minerals in the food that
we eat when our body needs those
minerals in order to be healthy so
that's another interesting point about
minerals okay let's go over a chart here
and we're going to talk about different
types of minerals since we're talking
about minerals anyway we have the types
of minerals here and these are different
ones we talked about gold before but we
can also talk about graphite and we can
talk about aluminum aluminum okay by the
way it's an interesting word aluminum
Americans will say aluminum British
people will say aluminium okay
so this word actually split a long time
ago and it's a kind of a long story
behind it but just remember Americans
will say aluminum British people will
say aluminium okay so depending on the
pronunciation you can tell if a person
is from America or from Britain or a
former British a British country that's
a country that's closely associated with
Britain for example Australia or New
Zealand okay we have those types we have
the pictures in the middle and on the
bottom we have some descriptions about
those minerals come from the land
minerals are found in rocks and soil we
actually have a video of gold I'm going
to show the video first and then we'll
come back to this but you can see that
the gold here
remember when I said gold is used as
money it's also used as coins this looks
like an Olympic coin now of course
people don't you want to go into a
supermarket with this coin and say here
I'm gonna pay for my groceries no you
wouldn't do that usually you could use
it for money you could go to the bank
and they will give you money for this
coin but usually people when they have
this type of coin it's a collector's
item they want to collect it and keep it
because it's it's nice it's it's neat to
look at it's nice to collect kind of
like stamps the same thing but this is
the mineral and when they when they
finish melting it down and making it
into a shape like I said before gold is
is used to make a shape they can make
coins like this let's take a look at a
video of gold this is what gold looks
like when we take it out of nature
before we change its shape and make it
into jewelry or a coin you can see the
person is is moving it look at how shiny
it is look at how bright yellow it is
it's very attractive isn't it and that's
one of the things that makes gold
expensive and precious that's why it's
so you know it it's very expensive it
takes a lot of money to buy gold by the
way gold is very heavy too if you had a
gold bar just a gold bar like this just
this size that would be very very heavy
to carry around so this person they have
a small nugget or a small chunk of gold
by the way when you have a pure gold up
the gold like this that it has you know
a random shape we call that a nugget
especially if you go into the nature and
you just see if you're very lucky you
see gold nuggets lying around that's
what old a long time ago and especially
in the American West old prospectors
would go around looking for gold nuggets
and they would take the the sand and the
soil with the water swirl it around and
try to find gold nuggets on the bottom
if some guy found a gold nugget this big
he would really really be happy he would
have a lot of money right there that's
worth a lot of money okay so that's gold
we also have graphite graphite what is
graphite used for it as you can see
graphite is kind of a dull gray almost
black color but graph
is very very popular you probably carry
around graphite with you every day when
you go to school you use graphite as you
can see graphite is the material on the
inside of your pencil it's the substance
that you write with so when you're
writing with a pencil you're actually
using graphite and you're putting
graphite onto paper and that's how you
can read your notes because you're
transferring graphite from this core on
the side of your pencil to the paper to
make letters and words so it's very very
useful mineral over here aluminum or
aluminium depending on where you're from
is used to make cans usually okay and
this is what aluminum looks like in the
in the in nature right it has a
different color if we if we melt it down
and turn it into a metal of the pure
form of aluminum of course this mineral
has some it's not pure aluminum it has
some other things in it but if you take
it and melt it down heat it up and you
create a cam from it you shine it up
it's very shiny gray of course in color
but it's very useful we can see aluminum
all over the place you know soda pop
cans also are usually made of aluminum
it's very lightweight as opposed to gold
which is very heavy okay so all these
minerals they come from the land we find
them in the ground minerals are found in
rocks and soil okay so let's move on
let's take a look right the correct
mineral for each picture here we have
aluminum graphite and gold we've just
talked about these different materials
so let's take a look I will describe the
picture to you the first picture of
course is of a pencil and remember we
talked about that inner core of the
pencil the wood surrounds this mineral
what do we use it for what is it called
it's called graphite and we use it to
write our notes at school or to write a
note to your friend okay over here we
have a piece of jewelry now this is an
interesting piece of jewelry I it looks
perhaps like a bracelet that somebody
might put around their arm it's shiny
it's yellow in color and it's very
attractive by the way another thing
about this particular material like I
said it's very easy to work with you can
see some very nice
detailed patterns that's that's another
feature of this mineral that people who
work with it can can really work very
easily with it and make very beautiful
nice patterns in it and that's what's
going on here
so what do we call this material what is
this mineral there's a horse is gold
okay so this will be gold because it's
yellow in color it's very expensive and
beautiful over here this is more of a
useful mineral right we use it a lot
it's a lot more common it's not as
expensive as gold but it's usually used
to make cans in containers okay and we
of course call that mineral this is
called aluminum aluminum okay we've got
one more thing to do before we get into
the reading and that of course is true
or false we have these sentences here
that we need to figure out if they are
true or if they are false so number one
minerals come from rock and soil we just
talked about this actually right where
do minerals come from where can we find
minerals of course it is in the rock and
so this is true minerals don't come from
trees it doesn't come from air they
don't come from water they come from
rock and soil okay number two minerals
are living things is that true if we see
a piece of gold can we if we watch it
long enough will it will it start to
move and maybe crawl around on the table
no it won't Gold is not living
not living minerals are not living
things so whether it's gold its silver
copper graphite aluminum it does not
live it is nonliving okay so they are
not living things number three
natural resources are things from nature
that people cannot use so the people
can't use natural resources is that true
no that's not true
because one of the definitions we talked
about a resource is something that you
can use natural means it comes from
nature but the most important point is
resource you can use it you can use it
natural resources are things from nature
that people can use so if you say cannot
that means it's false okay
well that about wraps it up for
these vocabulary words next we're going
to look at the reading about these words
and about this concept let's take a
short break
