ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

Part 1 Life Science
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 02
02. [Living Things vs Nonliving Things: https://youtu.be/XWyTndOCzSgâ€‹](science-2-02.md)

==Living Things vs Nonliving Things==
Nature has many living and nonliving things in it. Living things need food and water to survive. Food and water help living things to grow and change. Mammals, reptiles, birds, insects, amphibians, and fish are living things. People are living things too. The place where a living thing lives is called its environment. A living thing must be safe in its environment. All living things are alive. Nonliving things are not alive. Nonliving things do not need food or water, and do not grow. Rocks and water are nonliving things. 

[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading my name is Brian
Stewart in this lesson lesson two we're
going to talk about the differences
between living things and non living
things okay so we're gonna talk about
versus vs vs of course means versus
versus in other words we're going to
talk about the differences the
differences the differences between and
that's what we will discover you will
discover the differences here between
living things and non living things so
the difference is between is like versus
what are the differences between living
things like this little baby here this
cute baby and this cute teddy bear what
are the differences between living
things and nonliving things first let's
look at living things
what are living things living things
need water air and food to live living
things need three things to live they
need water air and food animals and
plants are living things that's what
living things need okay as opposed to
non living things none of course means
not not not living not living means that
they're not alive right it means
nonliving things do not need water air
or food rocks and water are examples of
non living things they're not alive
right they don't have bodies right they
don't have parts that move right these
are other examples of nonliving things a
football a basketball a baseball those
things are not alive right they don't
live they don't breathe they don't
reproduce they are not
living things they are non living things
all things whether they're living or not
living they live in a place what do we
call that place we call that place the
environment the environment this is the
place where a living thing lives but of
course it's all the place it's also the
place where you can find many nonliving
things too but an environment usually we
talk about when we talk about living
things we talk about their environment
and the relationship between living
things and the environments survive
means to continue living living things
of course one of their main goals is to
continue to survive to continue to live
continue living to keep living stay
alive they of course want to stay alive
so living things want to survive a
living thing needs water air and food to
survive if they don't have water no air
no food they cannot survive right in
that case they die okay if all those
types of things die then they are no
longer they go extinct look at this
flower right here this flower is growing
up it needs water air and food in order
to survive if you take away water the
flower will die no air the flower will
die no food and the water the flower
will die
so all living things need to survive
they need these things in order to keep
living to continue living to grow of
course all living things grow that's
another thing about living things not
only do they survive they need to
survive they also need to grow living
things change from very small babies to
adults to very old and then they die
this is what happens to living things
it's the cycle of life
the cycle of life all living things grow
through the cycle of life grow means to
get bigger that's the basic word right
to grow to get bigger if you have food
and water you will grow right food water
and time you will get bigger right all
living things this is a good example
here we can see different stages of the
development of this plant this plant as
it grows it gets larger let's take a
look at this these plants here that are
planted in this pot here let's take a
look at how they grow Wow look at that
they're growing very quickly of course
this is a trick photography this video
was taken over a long period of time but
the plants are growing they are getting
bigger getting bigger they are growing
in size and of course they're growing in
age too they're getting older so when
things grow they get older when you grow
you get older so things grow they get
bigger they also get older and this is
part of the cycle of life ok let's talk
about non living things or rock is an
example of a nonliving thing a rock is a
small and hard live nonliving thing this
for example is a rock
now it says small but of course some
some rocks can be big right but uh this
this little rock here that you can pick
up off the ground it's small it's hard
right it's very tough and it does not
live this rock it doesn't need water
it doesn't need food it's not gonna grow
right it's not gonna get bigger by
itself if you give it food in water
that's that's crazy right so the rock
will stay the same unless you hit it
unless water changes it somehow but
usually by itself it will not grow it
will not change by itself now nature
right nature is where all the things
exist nature is the world of living and
non-living thing
so living and nonliving things exist in
nature when you go on into nature right
you have you have grass you have trees
you have air you have clouds you have
sunlight some of those things are living
some of those things are not living
nonliving but these all exist in nature
nature is also the outside world safe we
have safe here safe as something is safe
there is no danger and what this image
is this is an image of a turtle's shell
a turtle used to live here
it was safe when it was alive it died
hopefully of old age right the turtle
the shell kept it safe but all things
die all things grow they get bigger
eventually all things will die that's
part of the life cycle so this shell
while the turtle was alive during its
life it protected the turtle it kept it
safe to keep something to keep something
safe we can say this shell kept the
turtle safe if something is safe there
is no danger he's safe no danger don't
worry
oK we've talked about living things and
nonliving things here we have another
word alive alive is associated with
living things being alive means to be
living not dead okay so here we see this
fish this fish is alive it's moving
around looks like it's breathing so it
is alive but this fish will grow older
it has a cycle of life all living things
have the cycle of life someday this fish
will die and then when it dies it will
not be alive so alive is the opposite of
dead these words are opposite alive
opposite dead and living things go
through this living things are either
alive or they are dead okay okay here we
have our chart showing us the
differences
living things and nonliving things
living things versus nonliving things
the difference is between them on this
side we have living things on this side
we have nonliving things we have
pictures showing the two different
things and we have vocabulary words and
expressions to describe each thing over
here we have living things we have
pictures of flowers picture of a
squirrel picture of a tree these are all
living things they are all alive they
all grow and they change right they get
bigger they all need air food water and
space they need space to move around in
ok let's take a look at a video of a
squirrel okay he's a cute little guy
he's really cute isn't he look at his
hands that's kind of funny the way he
uses his hands too but this squirrel is
alive right boo you can see that he's
live he's moving very quickly sometimes
he stops but you can see how he moves he
needs space to move around in he does
need food he's breathing so he needs air
and he'll need water whoa and there he
goes he's gone right so he needs space
to move around in as well as food air
and water
now what about nonliving things
nonliving things here we have a picture
of rocks here we have a picture of sky
and clouds
so you could say air and water are
nonliving things here we have a picture
of a statue right it's a huge statue
it's really a monument right these are
all examples of non living things
they're not alive they never grow
they're never gonna grow bigger right
they're gonna stay the same they never
need air food or water they don't need
air to breathe they don't eat they don't
need food they don't need water they do
need space of course but they don't need
air food or water let's take a look at a
video of nonliving things here we have a
video of what is this this is a type of
rock what type of rock this is a mineral
right this is a but it's also a type of
rockets a small rock but it has some
mineral parts to it right and it's very
beautiful it's very beautiful
light reflects off it it's shiny but
it's not alive it doesn't move it
doesn't grow it doesn't need food
doesn't need water doesn't need air it's
gonna stay the same for a very long time
unless you break it open for example but
it's not going to change by itself okay
let's move on to the exercise the
exercise we're matching the words to
their definitions the words that we have
or grow survive environment environments
okay that's a difficult word environment
rock living things and non living things
take a look at the first definition
number one things that do not need water
air or food so what things were we
talking about that do not need they
don't need air water or food the video
of the rock the mineral that we saw
that's an example is the mineral a
living thing or a nonliving thing it's a
non living thing okay so things that
don't need water air or food are non
living things
okay good number two a small and hard
nonliving thing so again remember that
video with that we saw right it's small
and it's hard it's a nonliving thing
which of these words fit that
description well of course if you choose
rock you would be right
rock is a small hard nonliving thing it
doesn't live it's not alive number three
to continue living to keep living to
stay alive what do we call that we say
that is survive to survive it's a verb
to survive to continue living to keep
alive to stay alive to stay alive is to
survive continue to live talk about
number four to get bigger when something
gets bigger especially by itself if you
give it food and water it will get
bigger what is it doing it is of course
growing to get bigger is to grow to grow
in size number five the place where
thing lives where is a place where a
living thing lives if you chose the
environment that's our difficult word
there the environment that is the place
where a living thing lives living things
of course need space they need a clean
and good environment in which to live
that's why it's important also to
protect the environment if the
environment is protected many living
things can continue to stay alive they
can survive in the environment but if we
make the environment dirty living things
will die they won't survive okay
number six things that need water air
and food to live things that need water
air and food to live that's the opposite
of nonliving things right that would be
living things and we are all living
things all animals and plants those are
living things we need water air and food
to continue to live to survive to live
we are living things those things are
living things okay let's move on here we
have a chart showing the differences
between living things and nonliving
things what are some examples of living
things and nonliving things think about
that think of the things that you can
see in your room think of things that
are in your house think of things that
are outside your house on the street
what are some examples well of course in
your house you could probably find
people there's you right there's your
sister or brother there's your parents
right
those are people outside your house in
nature you probably can see some birds
especially if it's spring outside you
can hear them singing we can hear birds
those are living things rabbit a rabbit
is also a living thing right it needs
food air and water to grow these are all
animals but plants are also living
things types of plants flowers flowers
are living things and trees are living
things what are some other examples
maybe you can come up with grass grass
is also a living thing it's a type of
plant so living things we can also
divide
these here we could say living things
are also animals and they're also plants
okay
these things are plants these things are
animals okay so living things you can
also break it down into another grouping
animals and plants so living things are
animals and plants all of these things
need food air and water to survive to
continue living now on the bottom we
have non living things these things are
not alive what do we have what are some
examples if you go outside your house
into a parker or other natural area you
could probably find many rocks lying on
the ground
those are nonliving things in your house
or maybe right outside your house do you
have a bike many of you do a bike of
course is a non living thing we might
think of it as a living thing we might
think of it as our friend but it's not
living right it's just a tool we use to
get around clothes the clothes that
we're wearing the clothes I'm wearing
the clothes you're wearing right now
they're not alive that would be weird
wouldn't it they're nonliving they don't
live a car your your parents might have
a car parked outside right that is a
nonliving thing it's a machine it's a
tool but it's a nonliving thing and
finally we have books again books can be
our friends but again they're not alive
right we use books we get enjoyment out
of books but they're not living none of
these things none of these things need
water air or food in order to live or to
grow so they are nonliving things they
are not alive let's move on here we have
kind of an exercise that we need to talk
about whether these things are living or
nonliving what we need to do is we need
to write L right L for living things so
if it's alive if it's living right L in
the blank if it's not living right and
non living so write n in the blank
it's not alive it's not living nonliving
take a look at the first picture we have
a teddy bear now of course there are
some movies you can see where teddy
bears and dolls get up and dance but
that's just the movies right that's not
reality right do teddy bears need water
food and air do they grow in size no
they don't so they are nonliving things
we put N in the blank they are non
living things here we see a picture of a
cloud looks very peaceful looks very
nice but does a cloud need air water and
food to grow no clouds will grow if
there's more water sure clouds do need
water that's true but they don't need
food right they don't need air to grow
they will not grow they they are not
part of the lifecycle
so again clouds are non living things
down here in number three we have a
picture of a bear looks like a very
dangerous bear big bear all right be
careful
this bear is walking through a stream
it's moving right it needs water
it needs food it needs air to breathe it
will change this bear looks like an
adult bear a long time ago it was a baby
bear so it grew into a very large bear
so does this business bear living you
bet it is living so we put L it is a
living thing now this is an animal over
here number four we have a picture of
plants these are picked this is a
picture of many flowers flowers or
plants do they need water
do they need air do they need food sure
they do they are living things they need
those things in order to grow okay so we
have our wrap-up of living and
non-living things some different
examples let's move on to our true or
false questions Circle T for true F for
false first question nonliving things
need food and water to survive we just
looked at some examples of living things
and nonliving thing
right we looked at the nonliving things
we saw the cloud right
it doesn't need food in water to survive
right
we saw the teddy bear the teddy bear
doesn't need food and water to survive
right they will they'll be okay so this
is not true this is false right if we
change this sentence and we say living
living things need food in water to
survive that's true but we have to
change the sentence so it's false
number two living things grow and change
so think about that that bear that we
saw does it grow and change sure I said
it grew from a baby into an adult bear
it grew it changed to flowers grow and
change sure they do they start off as
seeds and they grow into plants or adult
plants so living things grow and change
yes that is true
absolutely number three the environment
is where living things live is that true
we talked about environment that's a
difficult word think about where animals
live think about where plants live we
call that the environment and I told you
about the importance of protecting the
environment keeping it clean so that
living things can be safe they can live
they can continue to survive so yeah
number three is true the environment is
where living things live ok we'll wrap
it up there we'll take a short break and
we'll come back and look at the reading
okay welcome back let's go over the
reading passage as usual in the reading
passage we have our topic sentence
that's the first sentence of the reading
passage here and what does it say it
says nature has many living and
nonliving things in it so we're talking
about nature right the environment in
the outside the outside world if we go
outside into the countryside or into a
forest that is nature we can see there's
two kinds of things there one we have
living things and two we have non living
things so living things and none
living things in it in nature so
basically this article this passage is
going to talk about two different things
that occur or exist in nature first
we're going to talk about living things
living things need food and water why to
survive to keep living so they want to
keep living they want to continue living
they want to survive they want to grow
food and water help living things to
grow and to change so things will change
from babies to adults plants will change
from seeds to very big trees in some
cases so living things will grow they
will get bigger and they will change in
their shape and especially in their size
those are that's about living things
what kinds of living things are there
mammals reptiles birds insects
amphibians and fish are all living
things we talked about these things
right so mammals of course are a type of
animal warm-blooded animal reptiles
cold-blooded animal birds birds is
similar to reptiles but birds fly there
are insects amphibians creatures that
live in water and on land and fish
animals that live in the water these are
all living things people you and I are
also living things by the way all of
these things we talked about this all of
these things here what are they there's
two groups for living things these are
all called animals these are all animals
all of these examples in this reading
passage here these are all animals of
course in the bottom we see people
rabbit-bird these are not animals right
these are plants so all living things
remember we can divide into two main
groups animals and plants the place
where a living thing lives is called its
environments right
animals and plants exist in an
environment a living thing must be safe
in its environment so we saw the picture
of the turtle shell right the turtle
uses the shell to be safe in its
environment many animals use homes or
shelters to live or to be safe in their
environment we want to be safe in our
environment we build our own homes right
but we need to be safe in our
environment our environment also needs
to be clean and healthy
we shouldn't pollute we shouldn't throw
away things or do something to our
environment to make it dirty otherwise
we will not be safe right we need a
clean environment to be safe all living
things are alive so all animals all
plants all living things are alive they
grow and they change over time on the
other hand on the other side we have non
living things
nonliving things of course are not alive
nonliving things do not need food or
water and they do not grow okay
so living nonliving things they don't
need those things they're not going to
grow living things need food and water
to grow but nonliving things don't grow
they don't need food they don't need
water rocks and water are examples of
non living things we also have many
other examples we talked about before a
bicycle a car or rock clothes and books
all examples of non living things let's
take a look at a video of a living thing
and a nonliving thing let's take a look
at the video of course is it alive you
think it's alive it's moving isn't it
it's all but look at this that's a
person over there okay of course we have
the living thing over here that's a baby
and the baby is being given a nonliving
things very happy with the teddy bear
right of course we don't be tricked the
teddy bear looks like it's moving but
it's not alive it's just it's a
nonliving thing but it's interesting to
note that living things especially
people right people will kind of think
sometimes of nonliving things as if they
are alive right
I'm sure this baby loves his teddy bear
he might give it a name he might talk to
it but it's not living right it doesn't
need food it doesn't need water it will
never grow this teddy bear will stay the
same
mostly you might get older right it
might get all worn it won't be as new as
it was when they first bought it but
it's not gonna grow in size it's not
gonna eventually die it's a nonliving
thing okay let's talk about our reading
skill chart here now we're talking about
living things and nonliving things right
living things versus nonliving things so
it's very easy to compare and contrast
how are they different
of course our topic sentence is nature
has many living things and non living
things in it okay so that's kind of how
they are similar right because they both
exist in nature however how are they
different there's many differences
between living things and nonliving
things so we can look at the differences
we can describe them and how are they
different
now when we fill in these blanks we only
have three words or three phrases to
choose from food and water is one choice
grow is another alive is another there's
only three but we have six blanks well
if you notice this says R and this says
R naught so that's showing difference
positive negative sentence okay so
positive sentence negative sentence a
and D will be the same blanks so let's
take a look all living things are what
as opposed to nonliving things are not
right so all living things are alive all
living things are alive that's true okay
all living things are alive because they
are alive what do they need to survive
they need food and water to survive
because they're alive that's what they
need finally they what and change they
grow and change living things grow they
get bigger and they changed part of
growing is changing getting bigger is
changing so they grow and change
there's also depending on the animal
they
so change in other ways deer grow
antlers right they grow horns out of
their head male deer right so they've
changed they don't just get bigger they
also sometimes have a lot of different
changes a caterpillar
changes into a butterfly it's a big
change so it's not just grow bigger they
also change now these are all what they
do do okay this is what they do do they
do these things on the other side they
don't do these things it's very easy
it's the same thing across nonliving
things are not alive
they don't need food in water to survive
and they do not grow or change so we can
see the differences here all living
things are alive nonliving things are
not alive living things need food and
water to survive
lawn living things don't need do not
need food in water to survive living
things grow and change nonliving things
do not grow or change so those are the
differences right we're just talking
positive and negative using the same
words we can describe the differences
between living things and nonliving
things okay okay let's move on to our
reading comprehension questions we have
question number 1 nonliving things are
not what a survive be alive or sea safe
now look at the sentence here nonliving
things are not then we're describing
nonliving things the word form or the
type of word that we use to describe non
let us to describe something is an
adjective
add adjectives right slowly adjectives
so nonliving things are not we're
looking for an adjective because an
adjective will describe what these
things are not we're looking for a
descriptive word an adjective number a
is survive B is alive C is safe which
ones are adjectives B and C are
adjectives survive is a verb so that
doesn't fit verb so we can't use survive
because grammatically it doesn't fit in
sentence so we have to choose between
alive and safe nonliving things are not
alive well of course that's the right
answer
because they are alive they're living
and this is not okay so nonliving things
are not alive they are not living they
are not alive they're not living that's
correct
but look at see safe is also an
adjective right nonliving things are not
safe well that doesn't make sense
because you know nonliving things don't
care about being safe or in danger right
if you look at a rock a rock is not in
danger or safe right doesn't care
nonliving things don't have to worry
about staying alive they don't have to
worry about surviving so they don't care
about being safe or not safe we it's
silly to say nonliving things are not
safe what does that mean it's more
appropriate to say that nonliving things
are not alive they're not living okay
number two what helps people to grow and
survive and remember people that's an
example of living things right they're
example of animals so what helps people
to grow and survive and not just people
but also animals and plants all living
things what helps them grow and survive
a water and food be rocks and fish see
an unsafe environment well of course we
learned already that water and food are
two of the things that all living things
need to grow and to survive water and
food and of course air but that's not
there we don't need to we're just
looking at what helps two of the three
is enough so water and food helps people
to grow and to survive rocks and fish
well fish can be a type of food but do
we need rocks to survive we don't need
rocks to grow and survive that's kind of
silly so be wouldn't be correct and see
an unsafe environment no remember I was
talking to you I made the point several
times we need to keep our environment
clean we need to keep our environment
clean we need to keep our environment
safe if we have a clean environment if
we have a safe environment then that we
can survive but if it's unns
safe not safe then that will not help us
to grow and survive in fact it might
cause us to die so we need to take care
of our environment let's move on to
number three number three living things
grow living things grow but now we're
looking for opposition an opposite
thought because of butts but mammals and
reptiles do not is that true living
things grow mammals and reptiles are
living things so this contradicts each
other living things grow but animals but
mammals and reptiles do not that
contradicts each other obviously a is
not correct what about B not living
things grow but nonliving things do not
do not grow is that true of course that
is true B is the correct answer let's
take a look at C for practice living
things grow but the environment can
never change that doesn't make sense
right because the environment does
change right the environment can change
in terms of whether the environment can
also change in terms of type valleys can
become mountains oceans can become
planes so the environment does change so
that's not correct either the
environment is always changing number
four what does nature have in it so that
was one of our topic that was our topic
sentence right when we looked at the
reading what does nature have in it and
we saw that there are two different
things
that we are talking about exist in
nature let's go over the answers a non
living and living things B only living
things like mammals see only nonliving
things of course if you chose a you
would be correct because Nature has
nonliving and living things in it that
was our topic sentence the very first
sentence and that's what we are talking
about in this lesson living things and
nonliving things they both exist in
nature so Nature has both nonliving and
living things in it not be only living
things know and see only nonliving
things know it's both non
living and living things so both things
okay let's move on to our chart we've
seen this chart before let's take a look
we need to fill in the different labels
for the chart okay we have the
differences between living things and
non living things so over here we have
pictures of flowers type of plant and
animal and a tree
another type of plant these things are
alive these things grow and change these
things need air food water and space
what are they of course they are living
things over here we see a picture of
rocks we see a picture of clouds air sky
we also see a picture here of a statue
our monument of course you could say
it's rock - it's very big rock it's a
carved rock like a statue so these
things are not alive they never grow
they're not going to get bigger they
never need air food or water so what are
they of course they are non living
things okay so this unit lesson 2 was
mostly about the differences between
living things and nonliving things how
are these two groups difference and
we've talked about living things
we are living things animals and plants
are living things we all need air food
and water to survive we also need space
of course we grow we change nonliving
things are not alive they don't grow
they don't need food air and water to
survive they just exist and all things
exist in nature ok well that wraps it up
for this lesson hope you've learned a
lot as usual we'll see you guys next
time take care
American Textbook Reading | Science 02