ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 04
[The Human Life Cycle: https://youtu.be/feTaVkZr5K4â€‹]

==The Human Life Cycle==
The life cycle of people is amazing. A person starts very small as an infant. An infant cannot walk or talk. An infant grows into a toddler. A toddler starts to learn to walk and talk. A toddler will grow into a child. A child can walk and talk. Children begin to go to school and learn. When a person becomes 13 years old, we call them a teen.A teen is a person between 13 and 19 years old.
When a person becomes over 19 years old, we call them an adult. An adult is a fully grown person.
During this cycle, we should be healthy. What is important for being healthy? Every person should eat healthy foods and get enough sleep and exercise to be strong and healthy. 


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart in this lesson we're
going over an interesting topic this is
lesson 4 we're going over the human life
cycle very interesting in this lesson
you will discover the life cycle of
people we've been talking about life
cycle a little bit but it's very
interesting to narrow our focus on to
the life cycle of human beings and we
have some very good pictures to
introduce the topic as you can see this
is the life cycle of people in pictures
people start off very young right as
babies they move on to be children then
they're cool teenagers right and then
they become adults so this is a very
good demonstration or picture
demonstration of the life cycle of
people well let's begin at the beginning
with babies we can also say infant
infant and baby mean the same thing so
infant an infant is a baby an infant
cannot walk or talk by so cute right lol
oh okay sorry but there's a little
infant right little baby their newborn
right that's another expression we can
use new born new born they were just
born they have just been born they have
just come into the world they're new in
the world they're very young right
probably under a year old or maybe a
little bit older than a year by the way
I just said under a year old don't be
confused that's American age right when
infants are born we say they are one day
old right they start that they start
their age at the moment that they are
born in American culture I know it's
different for Korean culture right they
might be already a year old by the time
they were just a few days old in
American culture so infants we say
they're like zero
- one-year-old right you can be zero
years old isn't that crazy okay but in
American culture you can be zero years
old let's take a look at the next stage
the next stage is the toddler stage the
toddler if you think about the word
toddler it's like you know moving around
like this and that's exactly what
toddler is talking about a toddler is a
very young child a toddler learns to
walk and talk so an infant can't walk or
talk right but at the stage where an
infant starts it grows right after about
one to three years old then we say that
child is a toddler 1 to 3 years old
remember this is American age 1 to 3
years old
a toddler learns to walk and talk so
toddler like I said it's kind of like
moving around like this they don't have
good balance they need some help maybe
to walk their toddlers and there at the
same time that they're walking they're
also learning to talk so they're making
baby sounds like googa googa googa right
there it's very interesting to listen to
toddlers talking right they're putting
sounds together they're starting to
learn how to talk as well as how to walk
in this stage we say that they are
toddlers in the next stage ok after 3
years old so we got from 4 to 12 years
old again in American age we say that
they are children child they're a child
a child is a very young person who is no
longer a baby these kids are not baby by
the way also used kid which is also a
very common informal way a kid he or she
is just a kid they're kids these are
kids they are no longer babies but
they're not yet a team teen is the next
stage we'll look at that in a minute a
child goes to school so children start
school usually with kindergarten then
they go to elementary school first grade
to
sixth grade so a child starts to go to
school they start to go to classrooms
and learn lessons in a classroom and
these are child that's what we mean as a
child usually four to twelve years old
so you could say you know what about you
guys are you a child or are you a teen
teen is the next step in the lifecycle
of human beings a teen if you think
about it it's a very logical
it's from the ages of 13 to 19 so if a
child or a person is from 13 to 19 we
call them a team of course 13 if you
look at the words in English 13 for teen
it's very easy to figure out right 13 14
15 16
these are teens we also refer to these
people as teen agers that's also a very
common word that we use teen and we put
Agers on the end teen agers they are
teenagers or short they are teens and
these is a group of cool looking
teenagers right okay a teen is a person
between the ages of 13 and 19 we have
that right there teens are young adults
so actually when you get around 18 19
some people consider 18 year olds
they're adults they can vote they can
vote for leaders in a country so you
know getting around 18 19 they're there
some people consider those people adults
right but there's still teens because
they're still in the teen years 18 19
okay so after teen what's the next stage
after teen what do you think that would
be an adult adults are fully grown
people they're fully grown hopefully
they're fully grown at mentally as well
as physically but physically they're
fully grown these people are all adults
of course there are different ages
this man here is middle-aged middle-aged
you may know him he's a famous actor
right so he's middle-aged he's the
oldest adult in this group he's
middle-aged the other people are younger
right they could be in their 20s
or in their 30s but middle age starts at
about 40s right
40s and onwards between 40 and and 50 60
but their middle-aged so an adult is a
fully grown person and this is the last
stage in the human life cycle right
adult after of course adult there's lots
of different ages and adults right it
goes from 20 years old
how long do people live usually normally
people live into their 70s sometimes in
the news you can hear about people who
are 100 or more years old that's really
old right of course
after adults part of adults are senior
citizens these are the elderly citizens
senior citizens very old adults probably
after 60 years old 60s 70s 80s they are
senior citizens so adults have some
breakdowns too young adult middle aged
and senior citizens these are different
stages in the adult phase in the adult
phase of the life cycle of people ok
let's move on now it's very important in
the human life cycle in order for us to
be healthy during the stages of our life
we need to do certain things one of the
things we need to do is sleep sleep
means to rest your body and mind with
your eyes closed so this little girl is
asleep she's at peace when we talk about
sleep about half of our life is spent
sleeping it sounds like a waste but we
need to sleep we need sleep in order to
rest our body to rest our mind to
develop our body and to develop our mind
so we need sleep sleep is a very
important part
of our lifecycle we also should exercise
there's a saying in English use it or
lose it what does that mean that means
you should use your body exercise makes
your body strong use your body make your
body strong or lose it in other words
you lose your body your body will become
weak and you will have bad health and it
could cause you serious health problems
so use your body or lose it that's
interesting at when people say you
should exercise use your body or lose
your body right use your body make it
strong exercise like this girl is doing
make your body strong that's very
important of course for you to have a
healthy life cycle also during our life
cycle our life cycle really is a
continual process of learning we learn
we start learning right away when we're
infants when we're babies right and then
toddlers learn to walk they learn to
talk children go to school they learn in
school teenagers go to high school so do
adults continue to learn you bet of
course adults continue to learn all of
life is a learning experience to learn
is when you study you learn things when
you study books when you study in class
right now you're studying with me I'm
happy to help you but we are studying we
are learning things but even when we're
just living when we're on the job when
we're doing our job when we're meeting
other people we're also learning many
things so we really never stop learning
and that's important never stop learning
always keep an open mind look around you
and learn from your experiences and you
will never stop learning learning is a
very important part of course of our
life cycle as people okay let's take a
look at the human life cycle here we
start over here right this is the
beginning we start out as infants
or babies we talked about that right
babies zero to one year old right
newborn babies then we move into
toddlers toddlers start to learn to walk
and to talk their toddlers usually
between one two three years old over
here we have children children of course
would be between four and twelve years
old children start to go to school
that's when they enter school
kindergarten and then elementary school
grades one to six over here we have
teens or we also say teenagers teenagers
are in their teen years between 13 and
19 they go to middle school they go to
high school right and adults adults are
fully grown people and of course we see
many different stages of adults right
young adults middle aged adults and
senior citizens right so we have adults
here and of course everybody will
eventually die that is the end of the
life cycle so you're born on this side
you're born over here and then you die
one day we will die okay so born
continued through the life cycle until
some day we will all die but it's
important to have a rich and rewarding
life and this is the life cycle of human
beings
okay let's take a look at the exercise
to match the words with their
definitions here we have our words here
we have the definitions the words are
teen child infant adult sleep toddler
toddler okay let's take a look at these
definitions one a baby who cannot walk
or talk right same thing as newborn they
were just born what do we how do we
describe this person or this phase we
say that that person is an infant they
are an infant an infant a baby a newborn
they cannot walk or talk yet they
haven't learned how to
do that number two a fully grown person
somebody who has grown up fully they're
not going to grow any bigger
they're not gonna develop or get
stronger right they're fully grown what
do we say what phase of the life is that
of course that is an adult that is an
adult a person who is fully grown
they're not gonna grow anymore
number three a very young person who is
no longer a baby but not a team so a
very young person who is no longer a
baby not a baby anymore not yet a teen
so it's between those two actually we
have a couple of words that could fit in
there right no longer a baby but not yet
a teen not yet right
before somebody becomes a teen remember
the ages of about 4 to 12 they are a
child okay they just started to go to
school so no longer a baby but not yet
that means almost but not yet a teen so
the phase before teen is child okay
let's move on to number four number four
is a person between the ages of 13 and
19 remember 13 19 so teen of course is
our answer there that's very easy person
between the ages of 13 and 19 and
remember what I taught you before we can
also say teenager so teenager is also
used for this period in the human life
cycle number five to rest your body and
mind with your eyes closed right you're
resting your body and mind you sleep
okay so when you're sleeping you're
resting your body and mind you are
sleeping that's to sleep number six a
very young child very young child who
learns to walk and learns to talk okay
what do we call that person that we call
that person of course a toddler toddler
when you think of the word toddle I
think of somebody who's like they don't
have their balance very well to toddle
right but that we call that person a
toddler somebody is just learning
walk and so their balance may not be
very good their toddlers usually between
the ages of one and three years old okay
let's take a look at our chart during
our life cycle it's very important to
stay healthy you have to have a strong
body right you also have to have a
strong mind so how can we stay healthy
there are three things that we can do to
stay healthy this chart shows us what
those activities are first we see a
salad with a lot of vegetables maybe
some fruit in there
we should eat healthy foods like this
one food like fruits vegetables and milk
these are healthy foods they make your
body healthy and they make your body
strong so we should eat healthy foods
during our life cycle in order to have a
healthy life cycle so we have no
problems we can enjoy our lives if we
are healthy eat healthy foods another
very important thing what is this girl
doing she's resting her mind in her body
get enough sleep don't go to bed too
late don't get up too early right make
sure you get enough sleep you can rest
your body and mind during sleep it's
very important that you do get enough
sleep the third way we can stay healthy
do exercise you don't also have to say
do exercise we can just say exercise
also that exercise is a verb exercise
okay so exercise just exercise you don't
have to say do exercise just exercise
you should exercise running and jumping
makes your body strong well look at this
girl can you do that I can't do that
that would hurt my back but young people
have a lot more energy they have a lot
more flexibility right they can exercise
a lot more easily than adults can that's
one thing about children and adults a
good difference but it's important to to
exercise your body because that makes
your body strong
it makes you healthy and we want to know
know how to stay healthy how do we stay
healthy how do we keep our bodies
healthy during our lifecycle okay let's
move on we have some unhealthy habits
these are things you should not do we
just looked at things we should do these
are things you should not do circle
unhealthy habits okay so if it's
unhealthy we should Circle it if it's
healthy do it you should do it we should
don't Circle it okay but let's take a
look what is this boy doing
does he look healthy he doesn't look
healthy looks kind of tired he's sitting
on a couch he has a remote control in
his hand a remote control the remote
control is used to do what it's used to
control the television so this boy is
watching television with the remote
control is this a healthy habit is he
exercising his body no he's not this is
an unhealthy habit of course it's fun to
watch television but try not to watch
too much television maybe one hour a day
or maybe two ask your parents but your
parents don't want you to waste all your
time watching television they want you
to be healthy so you need to exercise
how about this picture right here this
picture in this picture this girl has a
rope in her hands this what is she doing
she is jumping rope she is jumping rope
so she has a rope in her hands and she's
gonna jump rope right this of course is
a very healthy exercise okay so we're
not going to circle this because this is
a healthy exercise we're only gonna
circle unhealthy not healthy so we
Circle this one this is not healthy but
this is healthy this is a very healthy
exercise a good exercise for you to do
jumping rope okay now we have two
pictures they're showing different kinds
of food are you hungry well which one
would you choose which food is healthy
which food is unhealthy let's take a
look at picture number three
here in this picture we can see a
hamburger there's some meat tomatoes
cheese and of course the bread on top
then in the front we have french fries
over here we have onion rings now that
might be a little unfamiliar let me
write that down for you onion rings
those are over here these are onion
rings now of course onions are very
healthy for you if you eat an onion yeah
don't eat the whole onion that might
cause a stomachache but eat a few onions
that's very good for you but these
onions were cooked in Greece right they
have a lot of fat there's a little bit
of flour around them that holds the
grease sure they taste good but they're
also very fatty
they are fatty foods fatty whoops
fatty foods usually greasy greasy foods
they are greasy foods greasy foods have
a lot of fat in them our greasy foods
our fatty foods are they healthy or
unhealthy of course they are unhealthy
so we would circle this food here let's
move on to picture number four in
picture number four we can see a salad
we have lettuce
we have types of pepper different types
of pepper green pepper red pepper yellow
pepper we have tomatoes olives I don't
know exactly this looks like apples
probably it's cut in a strange way and
we have carrots over here all of these
foods these are fruits and vegetables
remember fruits and vegetables they're
not cooked they're not fatty they're not
greasy they're natural are they healthy
or unhealthy they are healthy so we
don't Circle it so this is an example of
healthy food this is an example of
unhealthy food now of course it's okay
to eat hamburgers and french fries once
in a while
but don't eat too much you should eat
more salads more fresh natural food that
hasn't been cooked in Greece this is
very healthy for you you want to have a
healthy life cycle so make sure that you
eat healthy food let's move on
true or false questions the first one
the first stage in the human life cycle
is a toddler so we've just looked at the
different stages of the human life cycle
we start off at one stage we went all
the way around the circle and ended up
at the last stage what is the first
stage is it a toddler toddlers remember
are young a young human beings who first
learned to walk and talk is that the
first stage of the human life cycle no
it's not that's false right the first
stage in the human life cycle is an
infant that is the first stage of the
human life cycle so we have to change
this sentence so it's false right the
first stage of the human life cycle is
an infant not a toddler number two an
infant cannot walk or talk so an infant
we just saw is the first stage in the
human life cycle right when a when a
human is a toddler they're starting to
learn to walk or talk so that's true an
infant cannot walk or talk true because
they haven't started to learn those
things the second stage is toddler but
before that is an infant toddlers learn
how to walk and talk
infants don't know how to do that yet
they cannot they cannot walk or talk so
that is true sentence three a child is a
person between 13 and 19 years old now
of course this is pretty easy you
probably caught this already right 13:19
a person who is between 13 and 19 is a
teen not a child right so we would have
to change this sentence we would have to
change it to teen so of course that's
false right if we change this sentence
it becomes true but it's false as it is
how old is a child a child is a person
between the ages of about four and
twelve years old so a child is between
four and twelve not thirty
19 we'd have to change this sentence
okay
well that wraps it up for this section
we're gonna take a short break and take
a look at the reading next ok the
reading section has to do with the life
cycle of people and that's in our topic
sentence the life cycle of people is
amazing
it's really incredible it's very amazing
why is it amazing because people go
through so many stages in their lives
it's really amazing human beings have
such different stages and lives if you
look at other animals it seems that they
you know as soon as for example a horse
is born they can walk they can't talk
but if they never talk but they can walk
already so it seems like some animals
don't have as many life stages as a
human being does human beings go through
many life stages and many changes more
than other animals so the life cycle of
people is really amazing and then of
course this article this reading passage
is going to talk about those steps it's
going to order these steps of course in
chronological order cron no law j.cole
order this means by time so we are going
to start at the newest and go to the
oldest that's how this reading passage
is organized so we're gonna talk about
the first stage a person starts very
small very small person they are an
infant an infant a newborn a baby an
infant cannot walk or talk so then the
first stage of the human beings life
cycle we don't know how to talk yet we
don't know how to walk all we can do is
crawl around or even before that all we
can do is move around we really depend
on our parents especially our mother to
help us infants cannot walk or talk an
infant grows into a toddler so this is
the second stage of the human life cycle
toddlers start to learn to walk eight
toddler star
to learn to walk and talk so that's when
we start to become more independent when
we can move around for ourselves we can
also speak for ourselves and tell our
mom or our dad what we want a toddler
starts to learn to walk and talk
a toddler will grow into a child so just
in this part here we can see the first
three stages of a human life cycle right
so we start one as an infant second
toddler third we start at we become
children of course remember the ages an
infant 0 to 1 years old about 2 - I'm
sorry about 1 to 3 years old and this is
about 4 to 12 years old ok so those are
the first 3 stages of the human life
cycle moving on we can see a child can
walk and talk of course a child can walk
and talk they've already learned how to
do that in the toddler stage so children
begin to go to school they can walk to
school and they can talk to the teacher
they can talk to other students they can
learn because they can talk they can
listen and they can speak when a person
becomes 13 years old they're not a child
anymore we call them a teen right
remember a teen or teenager a teen or
teen ager is a person between the 13 and
19 some people also say you know it's
like the tween years tween years teen
years so this is another thing that
people say about teens they're in their
tween years between children and adult
right but it's 13 14 16 17 18 19 so they
are teens or teenagers they're between
13 and 19 years old these are teenagers
they go to middle school they also go to
high school okay
when a person becomes a
nineteen years old what are they they're
in their last stage of the human
development cycle of the life cycle of
humans they are in the stage of adults
now what is special about an adult an
adult is a fully grown person another
interesting thing you can see about
adults here
adults can start to have children of
their own and then the life cycle
continues and of course this is how all
life continues right people go through
different life stages different stages
in their life all animals go through
different stages in their life plants
also do this they become adults and they
can start the cycle again by having
babies and the cycle starts over so an
adult is a fully grown person ok so
during our life cycle we should be
healthy right so when we're starting off
from infant to adult we should be
healthy it's very important obviously to
exercise our bodies use it or lose it we
should also learn and this helps us to
become healthy throughout our life cycle
to help us have good and rewarding lives
so what is important for being healthy
every person should eat healthy foods
that's one way another way get enough
sleep that's a second way and third
exercise to be strong and healthy you
should do these three things in order to
make sure that you are healthy right eat
healthy foods don't eat the hamburger
very often eat salads eat fruits eat
vegetables eat healthy foods get enough
sleep don't stay up playing computer
games or watching TV right go to bed
early get up when you're not tired
anymore don't get up too early and play
the computer game you can't wake up
naturally right get enough sleep get
enough sleep and three exercise right
jump rope run play sports get enough
exercise to be strong and healthy
in that way you will have a strong and
healthy life cycle okay let's take a
look at our reading skill here we have
sequence now do you remember before I
taught you that word chronological let
me write it down for you again
chronological cron no la j.cole
chronological this means of course by
time so this is a very good subject to
talk about chronological order or time
order that's what we mean by sequence
sequence means what happens first what
happens second what happens third on and
on till last first to last sequence what
is the sequence of the events what is
the sequence of a human life cycle we're
talking about different steps or
different stages okay now that's what
we're going to do here this will be the
first stage second stage third stage
fourth stage and fifth stage so we're
breaking it down to five different
stages five steps in our sequence let's
take a look at those different steps of
course during this chart we have blanks
we need to fill in over here we have the
name of the stage over here we have the
description of that stage so our first
name of the stage our first label is
missing we have to look at the
description cannot walk or talk also
it's the first stage which one would it
be
our words are down here walk teen adult
school infant from this we can see we
have three labels for the stages so
these are where these words will go in
which word is appropriate for this blank
of course this one here infant is the
first stage in the human life cycle it's
when we cannot walk or talk the second
stage is toddler that's already filled
in for us what does it toddler do the
description of a toddler a toddler
starts to learn to
beep and talk well we just look up here
of course and of course we see the word
down here walk a toddler starts to learn
to walk and talk this is when human
beings first start to become independent
they first start to learn how to walk so
they can move around by themselves they
learn how to talk so they can express
themselves they're becoming independent
in the pen dense independent they're
becoming independent the next stage the
third stage is child a child begins to
go to where a child begins to go to
where what word down here would fit in
this blank well of course that would be
school a child begins to go to school ok
so that's our third stage there then we
have the fourth and the fifth stage we
don't have the labels so we got to fill
in the labels let's look at the
description the next stage a person
between 13 and 19 years old right of
course we're looking for one of these
words that I've underlined here
that's a teen so we have teen a person
between 13 and 19 years old finally we
have the last stage the final stage of
the human life cycle it's a fully grown
person which of these three words that I
underlined would fit of course you would
choose adult an adult is a fully grown
person so when we look at this chart we
can see that the chart is made out it's
a sequence in the in its ordered by
sequence sequence chronological or by
time we have the different sequences or
stages of a human life cycle starting an
infant going to toddler child teen adult
this is the chronological order of a
human life cycle it's in sequence okay
so very good let's do our reading
comprehension questions number one what
does it teen become so think back in the
chart we just looked at the chart right
we saw the different stages of the life
cycle for human beings
saw infant/toddler child teen what's the
next what does a teen become a toddler
no because a toddler turns into a child
who then becomes a team so a is
incorrect a child become a teenager
becomes a child no a child becomes a
teenager it's the other way around so
that's not right
a team becomes an adult yes that's true
that is our correct answer a team
becomes an adult what does a teen become
what does a beep become you're asking
for the next stage in the sequence
you're asking for the next step in the
sequence so adult is the next step in
the sequence of a human life number two
a child can walk and talk but is not yet
what okay so sure children can walk they
can talk but they are not yet what a
fully-grown be going to school see
eating healthfully well of course our
answer is a a child can walk and talk
but is not yet fully grown they are not
adults yet in fact they still have to go
through the teen stage to become fully
grown so they're not they're far away
from being fully grown let's look at B
and C for practice B and it is not yet
going to school is that true no it's not
true children start to go to school so B
obviously is not right a child does go
to school right it says not yet but
that's not correct child children go to
school see a child can walk and talk but
is not yet eating healthily that's not
correct either throughout your entire
life cycle we should be eating healthily
infants eat healthily toddlers should
eat healthily children teenagers adults
all stages should be eating healthily of
course when you're very young infants
and toddlers they don't have much choice
it's up to the parents but of course
parents will want their kids to grow up
strong they will give them healthy food
when you become a child that's when you
start to choose for yourself what you
will eat and it's important to choose
healthy foods you should eat healthily
throughout your entire life okay let's
move on number three a teen is a person
so a teen remember teen excuse me a teen
a teen is a person a under 13 less than
13 years old so may be between the ages
of 0 to 12 is that a teen no that's not
a teen remember we're talking about teen
right be between 13 and 19 years old
okay that's our answer right there right
it's be because 13 19 these are the teen
years it's when a person is a teenager
so that's the correct answer
see over 19 years old no they're no
longer a team right so see is not the
right answer
a teen is a person who has teen at the
end of their age 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
they are teens okay number 4 what should
people do to stay healthy now remember
you want to be healthy throughout your
life so what should you do
hey eat vegetables and fruit exercise
and sleep well that sounds good right
that is our correct answer eat
vegetables and fruit eat healthy food
exercise your body use it or lose it
sleep get enough sleep rest your body
rest your mind at night get enough sleep
that's the correct answer let's take a
look at B and C for practice sleep a lot
eat healthy foods but do not exercise
well to our right one is wrong so B is
not correct the two that are right sleep
a lot that's right
eat healthy foods sure but don't
exercise that's wrong okay by the way
it's very similar to a they just mixed
up the order and change the words around
eat vegetables is the same as eat
healthy foods vegetables and fruit sleep
a lot is the same as sleep well do not
exercise however is the opposite of
exercise let's take a look at C go to
school and learn to sleep
did you learn how to sleep at school oh
you know how to sleep when you're a baby
right way before you go to school you
know how to sleep so C is kind of a
silly answer isn't it you don't go to
school to learn how to sleep teacher how
do I sleep know you already know how to
sleep okay oh yeah let's move on we have
our chart here we've seen this chart
before it's a good chart showing the
different stages of the human life cycle
let's take a look at the first stage we
look at the pictures here in these
pictures are very happy they're very
happy aren't they very happy little
people they have just been born
they are newborns they're babies they
don't yet know how to laugh art they do
know how to laugh they don't know how to
talk or to walk yet I'm just making a
joke because they're they look like
they're very happy they're laughing so
they do know how to laugh but they don't
know how to walk they don't know how to
talk what do we call them we call them
infants they are at the infant stage he
or she is an infant in the next stage
now they learn how to walk they learn
how to talk they're a little bit older
right they're probably between one to
three years old what stage of life is
this if you guessed toddler you are
correct
they are toddlers he is a toddler she is
a toddler now after the toddler stage
okay they these people they are older
now they know how to talk they know how
to walk they start to go to school
usually between the ages of four and
twelve right of course those kids will
go to school kids is another word for
the same meaning of child
he is a kid he's a child she is a kid
she is a child
okay so a child the next stage the
children get older now they're between
13 and 19 years old they're probably
going to high school
they're almost adults almost adults not
quite adults not yet adults okay
they're between the ages of 13 and 19
they are teens or teenagers after
teenage years or the teens they become
fully formed people they're fully grown
people they won't grow any bigger
they're not their bodies aren't well
their bodies might grow this way right
their stomachs might get bigger but
they're not gonna grow any taller
they're not gonna grow they're not gonna
get stronger for example they are adults
okay so he is an adult she is an adult
and this is a good chart that shows the
human life cycle so where are you on
this human life cycle probably you're
either a child or you're a teen okay so
you're probably somewhere here I'm sure
none of you are in this life cycle right
because you don't understand what I'm
talking about right so you're probably
between here and here okay so this is a
human life cycle remember in your human
life cycle be healthy today we talked
about the human life cycle we talked
about the five stages of the human life
cycle we also learned that it's very
important to be healthy eat healthy
foods get enough sleep exercise your
body stay strong stay healthy throughout
your human life cycle you will have a
great life and I hope that you do well
we'll see you next time
take care
American Textbook Reading | Science 02