# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB) 3 / 15

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 03 | What Plants Need to Grow]
A plant needs many things to help it grow. It needs sunlight , water , and air to help it grow. Sunlight comes from the Sun. It gives the plant warmth . A plant needs water to grow. Water helps carry food from the soil to all its parts. 
Soil has food for plants to grow big and strong. We cannot see air, but it is also important for the plant to grow. Plants grow in the ground . A plant needs space in the ground to grow bigger. Can you remember all the important things a plant needs to grow big and strong? 


Transcript
[Music]
hello kids welcome back to American
textbook reading in this lesson we're
going over life science part 1 what is
the subject of part 1 we're going to be
talking about what plants need to grow
what do plants need to grow so in this
lesson you will discover what plants
need to grow big and strong everything
needs something to grow big and strong
you need something to grow big and
strong animals need things to grow big
and strong but in this lesson we're
gonna concentrate on what plants need to
grow big and strong so are you ready
let's get started
there are actually six things six things
that plants need to grow big and strong
the first one is sunlight sunlight what
is sunlight well of course we know we
have the Sun it rises every day and it
gives us light and that is what sunlight
is sunlight is the light and we of
course we have that word again the light
from the Sun we put these two words
together and we get Sun lights it's very
warm isn't it if you go outside let the
sunlight on your body oh it's very warm
very nice that sunlight it helps plants
to grow it also helps us to grow a
little bit I mean if we stay inside out
of the sunlight we're not very happy
so go out enjoy the sunlight it'll make
you happy of course if it's not too cold
outside right okay
so that's the first thing that plants
need to grow what's the second thing the
second thing is air we need air - of
course but plants need air as well air
if you take a look at this picture most
of this picture is air all of this part
of the picture is air right this is the
ground but air is the gases that
surround the earth
there are many different kinds of gases
that surround the earth we use some of
those gases plants use different gases
but they're all mixed together and we
call that air we cannot see air right
you can't see it it's invisible but it
is everywhere it's in this room it's in
the room that you are in right now and
just as we breathe air just as we need
air plants also need air okay so that's
the second thing that plants need what's
the third thing that plants need let's
take a look
water of course water is very important
how do we describe water how do we
define water water is basically a liquid
remember we talked about a liquid is
something that is that can flow it
doesn't have any shape it can move from
one place to another very easily it
flows a liquid that is necessary for
life water is necessary for all life not
just plants but what does water do for
plants do plants drink water like we do
no plants need water to move food to the
parts of a plant there are nutrients and
Lena you can say like minerals and maybe
you know like nutrients food in the soil
that the plant needs how does the plant
get those minerals out of the soil it
can't do it if it's dry but if it's wet
the water helps move the very small
minerals up through the plant and that's
how plants need water in order to get
the food that they need to live okay so
let's move on to the next thing what is
the fourth thing that plants need let's
take a look and that is space of course
everything needs space room to grow if a
plant cannot grow if there's no space
right where is it going to grow
especially think about a tree right a
tree needs a lot of space to grow so if
you take a look at this picture right
you see that there is space between the
rows space is the area available for
so if you have space you have area that
you can use it is available for you to
use that space that room if there is
space a plant can grow big and strong
right if there's enough space between
the plants these plants can grow very
large and of course if you think about
the trees in the background they need a
lot more space right if there's a small
tree and it's trying to grow and there's
too many trees around it that small tree
cannot grow very well it needs more
space to grow big and strong
okay so that is space what's the next
thing that plants need the next thing is
soil right I talked about that a little
bit before when we talked about water we
said there are many nutrients
there's many ingredients in the soil
that plants need to grow this looks like
very good soil right looks very rich and
very nutritious for the plants that's
good soil right there
soil is where plants grow soil is the
top part of the earth but remember not
the entire earth is covered with soil if
you go to the desert there's no soil in
the desert it's just sand so in order
for plants to grow we have to find very
good soil and we call it the it's the
top part of the earth sometimes people
call it topsoil and if it's very rich
and dark brown and wet like this that's
really good soil for growing plants
farmers really like that style
okay so though the next thing that
plants need is warmth warmth is the
state or quality of being warm
are you warm right now that means how
you're comfortable right you're not cold
you're warm
take a look at these plants in the
picture they look like strange plants
don't they actually we can't see the
plants it looks like straw things have
been put over the plants we could say
that somebody may be a farmer or
somebody who's caring for the plants put
these straw hats on top of the plant we
could say that these are like plant
clothes right these are clothes for
plants of course you don't see this all
the time
but what the farmer or the person who is
caring for these plants what are they
doing why did they put these things on
the plants to keep them warm if the
plant gets too cold it will die right
just like any living thing if it gets
too cold it will die so somebody is
protecting these plants by putting plant
clothes on the plants right actually
don't say plant clothes it's just kind
of a funny thing but it looks like these
straw over coverings these straw
coverings are on top of the plants to
keep them warm and healthy okay we have
another word here Kerry means to take
something from one place to another
Kerry if I carry these pens from here to
over there I'm carrying them what are
these butterflies doing and there's a
bee here - what are these insects doing
here's a little ladybug ladybug czar
cute aren't they they're very cute but
these animals these insects are these
insects are carrying pollen from the
plant one plant to another plant they're
helping those plants to live so to carry
is to take something from one place to
another okay let's move on
we have ground ground is the earth where
plants live so this is an interesting
shaped piece of ground of course it's
supposed to look like the earth right
but basically plants grow from the
ground now remember not all ground is
good for plants we need soil this looks
like good soil but plants don't really
grow well in sand in the desert that's
why there are no plants in the desert so
this is good ground for plants to grow
it's the earth where plants live in the
ground in the ground okay so let's go
over the different things what plants
need to to grow we I said that there
were six things here's a nice chart
showing the six things that plants need
to grow first we have air right air is
invisible we can't see it right but it's
all around us and plants need certain
gases
in order to breathe right plants breathe
just like we breathe they need air water
water what does water do again water
helps the plants get the materials from
the soil water helps move the nutrients
the food that plants need from the soil
up into the plant so that's what water
does space we talked about space plants
need a lot of space right they need
space to grow if the plant doesn't have
any space it can't grow to be big and
strong warmth plants need warmth again
we can see here looks like a tree that
has been wrapped with the straw again
somebody's trying to keep this tree
maybe it's a coconut tree they're trying
to keep it warm by putting clothes on it
right so it's very interesting I didn't
know that plants had clothes but here
somebody's putting like a protective
shield or protective covering on the
plant to keep it warm okay because we
need warmth to stay alive of course
plants also need soil soil is where
plants find their food and this again
this looks like very good soil it's very
dark and rich brown color it's very good
soil it has a lot of food that helps
plants grow finally we have sunlight
that was the first thing we talked about
sunlight of course everything needs
sunlight right we all need that kind of
warmth we need the the energy from the
Sun okay so sunlight is very important
to plants without sunlight plants cannot
live right then it's very important for
plants to get sunlight so this is a nice
chart to show you what plants need okay
so let's move on let's do an exercise
with the words now we've just covered a
lot of different words having to do with
what plants need to grow let's review
and let's make sure we remember those
words that vocabulary let's go over the
first exercise here the first one is the
state or quality of being warm this one
actually is an easy one right because
these are our words up here we have six
words
sunlight soil warmth water air and space
so the state our quality of being warm
which of these words sounds similar to
that actually it's very easy we can see
that its warmth right if we are warm
then we're talking about warmth right if
we're saying talking about the state or
the quality the condition of being warm
that is warmth warmth is good isn't it
especially in a cold winter day so
warmth of course is the answer there
okay so that one was pretty easy let's
move on to number two the gases that
surround the earth now we don't have a
similar word here but remember what we
talked about the gases that surround the
earth we need this to breathe plants
need this to breathe as well we can't
see it but it's everywhere can you
remember what it is
if you guessed air that's correct
gases that surround the earth that is
air and all living things need air to
breathe okay so let's move on to number
three the light from the Sun now this
one's gonna be easy right the light from
the Sun because we already have it we
have Sun and we have light right so
right there we can see sunlight that's
right the light from the Sun so we have
sunlight so of course that's a very easy
word to think about we're just putting
two words together the first word Sun
the second word light Sun light okay so
those are some those are the answers for
these three exercises here let's move on
and we have three more exercises to go
over again the same words
okay so let's match these words with
their definitions we have number four
the top part of the earth so the top
part of the earth the very surface of
the earth when you go outside and you
play you're probably walking on this
part especially if there's grass if
there's a lot of plants around if you're
in a desert right you're not going to
find a lot of this right but hopefully
you're playing on grass you're playing
in the forest what is under your feet
what is that at the top part of the
earth if you choose soil that is correct
soil plants need good soil to grow big
and strong okay so let's move on to
number five a liquid that is necessary
for life all life needs this liquid it's
a liquid remember there are three types
of a matter there's solid there's liquid
and there's gas right but we're talking
about a liquid which one of these is a
liquid air is a gas right but water
water is a liquid so water is the liquid
here a liquid that is necessary for life
well that of course would be water okay
okay number six the area available for
use so everything needs room we need
what kind of word can we use for room
another word for room of course that
word is space okay we need space and
that came up right there space so an
area available for use is space okay
we all need space to live in and of
course we as human beings we need a lot
of space to move around and play and
work and and live in plants also need
space because they need to grow they
need to expand ok so space is needed by
plants to be able to grow ok let's move
on here let's take a look at a couple of
different interesting plants here we
have insect eating plants did you know
there was such a thing a plant that eats
insects well that's pretty cool isn't it
we have two different kinds of plants
here now this plant this looks kind of
interesting here what's going on this of
course is a Venus flytrap the venus
flytrap opens its leaves and then
catches the insect and this poor fly
right here he's got he's been caught in
the Venus flytrap that's one way that
plants will eat insects this is another
type of plant this is called a pitcher
plant now take a look at this
interesting part of the plant in this
case the plant does not close around the
insect in this case
the insect goes inside it smells
something good and it goes inside there
and it gets trapped it can't get out and
then the plant will eat the insect these
plants grow in areas where the soil is
not that good or maybe the soil is too
far away
these plants may be growing on trees
they cannot reach the soil so they have
to find their food in a different way
and they find their food with insects
let's take a look at a Venus flytrap in
action ok let's take a look at that this
is a Venus flytrap here
how does it work let's take a look here
it's very interesting very amazing so
what we have here we oh here comes a fly
right he's attracted he smells something
here oh my gosh the plant just got the
fly wow isn't that amazing
now that fly poor fly he can't get out
of there
so the plant will eventually over a long
time eat that fly does not is not very
quick you know it takes takes a while
but the plant will eat the fly
eventually mmm ok poor fly but that's
nature but it's a really amazing if you
look around there's so many different
styles so many different types of plants
and animals and it's just very amazing
to take a look at nature and see all the
different ways that different living
things can survive ok ok let's move on
here
let's we've got a couple of we've got
several sentences we're gonna find out
are these sentences true or are they
false based on what we've learned so far
so we have we the directions of course
are circled T for true circle F for
false so if the answer if the sentence
is true we Circle T if the sentence is
false we Circle F number one we can see
air think about that right I already
said it's invisible if it's invisible
can you see it no you can't see it if
something is invisible you cannot see it
so this is false we can see air no we
can't see air there's air in this room
but I can't see it there's air in front
of my face there's air in front of your
face but you can't see it it's
invisible invisable by the way how do
you spell invisible i n-b-a s Oh where'd
my s KO us i b al e in visible we cannot
see it okay number two soil is the top
part of the earth is that true or false
we talked about soil plants need soil to
live where is the soil of course it's on
the very top part of the earth it's on
the top part of the ground right so this
is true soil is a top part of the earth
but remember soil is not everywhere I
gave you the example of the desert
there's no soil in the desert it's just
sand right so soil is needed for plants
to grow it's usually in the top part of
the earth third sentence warmth is where
plants grow
does that sound strange to you sounds
strange to me
because in this case once would have to
be a place right is once a place warmth
is not a place it's a condition it's a
status or quality of being warm so one
that a we can't say it's where right
where refers to a place but once is not
a place it's a condition or a state
quality of being warm so this sentence
is obviously false it's not true ok well
that about wraps it up for this section
of the lesson I hope that you've learned
a lot let's take a short break here
hello everybody did you have a good
break it's time now to go over the
reading section for this lesson so we
have a passage here we have a it's a
short essay we could say and of course
it's talking about what we have just
learned we have just talked about what
plants need to grow and we have learned
a lot of useful words for this subject
we'll see these words in the reading
passage so let's go over the together ok
so what we have here we have the topic
sentence the first sentence is the topic
sentence the topic sentence is a plant
needs many things to help it grow
many things right that's the key right
there so basically this reading is going
to be talking about the many things a
plant needs to grow remember when we did
the lesson we saw that there were six
things that a plant needs to grow so
this passage will list those things
they'll talk about those six different
things that a plant needs to grow we can
see several of them already on this
first slide first of all it it refers of
course back to a plant right it refers
back to a plant a plant needs many
things to help it grow it a plant needs
sunlight water and air to help it grow
so already we've talked about three
things right let's it lists three things
let's take a look at a little
description of each thing first of all
it said sunlight so what does sunlight
do sunlight comes from the Sun so that's
more description we have more details
about the first item sunlight of course
comes from the Sun it's sunlight it's
not moonlight it's sunlight so it comes
from the Sun it gives the plant warmth
and that's another thing that a plant
needs to grow so sunlight comes from the
from the Sun it gives the plant warmth
it also gives us warmth - okay so that's
the first thing a plant needs water to
grow water helps carry food from the
soil to all its parts so we can see a
pattern here we're listing the different
things then we have more detail about
each thing so the next one is water
needs water
what does water do it carries food
carries food from the ground into the
plant from the soil remember we talked
about soil soil is the part of the
ground or the top part of the earth
where there are many nutrients where
there is a lot of different ingredients
that supply food for the plant soil has
food for the plants to grow big and
strong just like you need good food
right fruit
vegetables meat rice pasta things like
that you need those different foods to
grow big and strong
well plants need soil to grow big and
strong of course we don't need soil
don't eat soil plaque it's horrible
right but plants will eat soil they need
soil to to grow big and strong and water
helps them get that material those
ingredients that are good for the plant
up into the plant so that the plant can
use those things water is very important
ok let's move on to the next one we
cannot see air right air is invisible we
talked about that but it is also
important for the plant to grow all
living things need air to grow they need
that certain type of gas to grow plants
grow on the ground ok
so plants grow on the ground we talked
about that ground is where the soil is
right so plants grow on the ground but
they also need space around in the
ground in order to be able to expand to
grow big and tall think of a tree a tree
needs a lot more space than for example
maybe a strawberry bush a strawberry
Bush just needs a little space but they
all need space every plant needs space
room in the ground to grow bigger ok so
you need room to expand right so can you
remember all the important things a
plant needs to grow big and strong we've
talked about 6 different things
what are those 6 different things ok
let's go over the organization for the
reading passage that we just studied
we're taking a look at the reading skill
here we have cause-and-effect so if we
talk about cause and effect cause right
is a condition or something such as a
situation that results or makes
something happen and that is the effect
so the cause is a condition or it's
something that is set up it's a
situation if something happens or if
this situation is true
then it causes a result something
happens something changes and we call
that change or that thing that happens
that is the effect so if we take a look
here what plants need we have a cause a
plant gets a plant gets these things if
that's true then what is the effect what
is the change what happens as a result
of this condition now over here we can
see that a plant gets several things
we've talked about the six things that a
plant needs right and those are kind of
listed here we need to fill in the
blanks here we have three things that
are already in this box warmth soil and
space those three things are there we
need three more things to complete this
box down here are our clues now be
careful we have strange something
strange here we have IR or well we have
to match it with the first letter see we
see the first letter of these words that
helps us write that gives us a clue as
to what to put in these blanks so we
have a we have a Turk and we have
unlight okay but that's kind of easy for
us because we can match them with the
first letters of the word here we just
have big and strong that's just by
itself okay let's go over these a plant
gets a a is our first blank that we need
to fill in which one of these words
needs an S at the beginning and what is
something that a plant needs as well
s-sir nope Satur no sunlight there we go
okay so a plant gets sunlight right
that's one of the things that it needs
it needs warmth second thing here we
have another word that starts with the W
right warmth whoa we need something else
that starts with the W over here we can
find us probably this one right water
sunlight warmth water another thing a
starts with an A it would probably go
here right ai
our air soil and space so a plant needs
sunlight or a plant gets that's a cause
a plant gets sunlight warmth water air
soil and space those are the six things
that a plant needs now if a plant gets
those things if a plant gets those
things that is the cause what is the
result
from this condition or this situation
the result the effect is that the plant
grows what will the plant do it will
grow of course it will grow big and
strong
that is the effect that's the result
that's what happens if this is true so
that's what we're talking about here
with cause and effect okay let's move on
to the next slide we're going to review
the proper words for these exercises
reading comprehension so we need to
choose the correct answer we have three
choices a B and C to fill in the blank
for these sentences let's take a look at
number one number one beep has food for
plants to grow we talked about this
before where do plants find the food
they need to grow do they find it in
sunlight do they find it in air or do
they find it in the soil right we talked
about this before if you choose soil
that is correct
soil has food for plants to grow
sunlight doesn't have food you know
foods not coming out of the Sun right
thus the Sun is sending out warmth and
an energy but not food air doesn't
contain food it's a gas right we we
breathe air but we're not getting our
food from air soil is where plants get
their food okay okay number two a plant
needs beep in the beep to grow bigger
right so this is a little difficult we
need two words here so as you can see a
B and C there's two words the first word
goes in the first blank the second word
goes in the second link so a plant needs
something in the something to grow
bigger this is important
inda so the first thing excuse me the
first thing we're talking about of
course is um that the first thing occurs
in the second thing right so let's take
a look at the the choices here a plant
needs space in the ground to grow bigger
does that make sense a plant needs space
a plant needs room in the ground where
it is because a plant can't move right
the plant has to stay put so it needs
space around it in the ground to grow
bigger that makes sense right and that
is the correct answer right a plant
needs space in the ground to grow bigger
the other answers don't make sense right
a plant needs air in the sunlight air in
the sunlight that doesn't make any sense
so obviously B is not correct see a
plant needs soil in the air
there's soil in the air no it would fall
down right so that obviously is
incorrect to the correct answer space in
the ground that makes sense and that's
what we talked about a plant needs space
room in the ground in order to grow
bigger okay let's move on to the next
three questions or actually the next two
questions right the first one number
three we cannot see air B okay that's a
long beat because it's a long answer
look at these answers they're very long
right we have a B and C so we cannot see
air and then we have a blank it's very
important to pay attention to this part
right here we cannot see so air would be
the first thing and then we might have a
list of other things but we cannot see
we can't see these things either so
let's take a look at a if we say we
cannot see air water or soil right away
we we find out that doesn't make sense
because of course we can see water we
can see soil remember we were looking at
the pictures the dark brown soils very
good for plants we can see that so this
answer doesn't make sense right we
cannot see air water or soil but they
are important for a plant it doesn't
make sense we can see water in soil it's
true that
water and soil aren't important for a
plant that's true but it's not true that
we cannot see water or soil so a is not
the correct answer let's move on to B we
cannot see air but oh okay
so it's not a list we're talking about
air we cannot see air but this gas is
important for a plant to grow is that a
true statement air is air an important
thing for a plant to grow yeah you bet
it certainly is an important thing for a
plant to grow so we cannot see air
however but on the other hand this gas
is important for a plant to go so
probably be is the correct answer right
and that's true B is the right answer
let's just take a look at C for practice
C we cannot see air but it gives food
and warmth to a plant is that true if
you've been paying attention and you've
learned about the the concepts we have
been studying you know this is not true
air does not give food or warmth to a
plant soil gives food to a plant
sunlight gives warmth to a plant so air
does not give these things C is also
incorrect B is our correct answer okay
let's move on to number four if a plant
does not have enough food or water okay
so imagine this is saying the first part
of the sentence is saying if in the
condition if the situation is that a
plant does not have food or water what
will happen to the plant we have three
choices here a the plant will get more
sunlight to help it grow that sounds
strange doesn't it if a plant doesn't
have food or water how can the plant
tell the Sun hey give me more sunlight
that's crazy right so that's obviously
incorrect how can the plant get more
sunlight to help it grow that's very
strange
it doesn't make sense let's take a look
at B be the plant we'll move to another
area sounds
great right but plants can move plants
can't just pick themselves up on the
ground and walk on over to another place
right that's crazy so be is also strange
right plants don't move plants stay
where they are
we can move the plant we can carry the
plant to another place but the plant
can't do it by itself so if a plant does
not have enough food or water it will
move to another area have you ever seen
a plant walking no that's crazy okay
so let's take a look at see the plant
will not grow big and strong
uh-huh there is our answer right because
of a plant does not have enough food or
water the plant will not grow big and
strong and that is correct that is the
results or the the effect of this
condition
this sentence actually is a good example
of cause and effect the first part is
cause if it's a condition if imagine
think about this this is the condition
or the cost if it doesn't have enough
food or water that's the cause what is
the effect the effect is the result the
plant will not grow big and strong so
cause and effect it's a good example of
that okay let's sum up let's finish up
our lecture with a review of what are
the six things that a plant needs so
what plants need this is a good chart we
can go clockwise around the chart and we
can talk about the different things we
have the pictures as clues we saw this
before right let's fill in the chart so
what is this picture of what is one of
the things one of the six things that a
plant needs to grow of course
whoa we came in from the top right air
air is something that the plants need to
grow okay this picture here of course
we're focusing on this liquid coming out
of this red canister here what is that
of course that is water water is needed
by plants to move the food from the soil
into the plant so water here we can see
this picture here we saw this picture
before it's showing the distance between
the plants or just here
with the arrow but of course we can also
look at the other side too so we need
room around a plant that is the same as
saying space plant needs space to grow
big and strong okay over here what have
we got going on here we talked about
this I made a joke about the plant is
wearing clothes right why do you wear
clothes
why does a plant wear clothes because
we're cold right so what do we need in
order to survive we need warmth so a
plant needs warmth also in order to grow
over here we talked about this we talked
about the color this is important also
for a plant this is where the plant gets
the food it needs in order to grow
everything every living thing needs food
you don't find this in the desert
what is this this is soil so soil is
important for plants to grow as well our
last thing here we can see what is this
very big bright light in the sky
that of course is the Sun and what comes
from it sun light so plants also need
sunlight in order to grow this is a good
chart of the six things that a plant
needs air water space warmth soil and
sunlight ok well that was an interesting
lesson we learned a lot about what
plants need to grow so I hope you've
learned a lot and we'll see you next
time take care everybody
