# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1 | Lessons 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB)

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 13 | Observing Matter](https://youtu.be/XhVWf_dp3Hwâ€‹â€‹)
All matter has properties. A property is the way something looks, tastes, feels, sounds, or smells. Size, shape, and colors are also properties. For example, a broom is hard, but a rabbit's fur is soft. A piece of iron sinks to the bottom of water, but a leaf floats on the water. An elephant is big, but an ant is very small. Rocks are heavy, but a feather is light. You can use tools to learn more about the properties. You can use a hand lens to magnify, making a very tiny thing look big. You can use a balance to tell the weight of an object. Also you can use a ruler to see how long a thing is.


Transcript


[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart now we're continuing
our part our subject with physical
science and our lesson 13 is observing
matter so we've talked about matter
before in lesson 12 now we're talking
about how to look at the matter how can
we observe the matter that is around us
there are lots of different ways and in
this lesson you will discover ways to
observe matter so we can see that this
boy here is using one of the ways we're
going to talk about to observe matter
some thing in front of him let's take a
look at some of these different ways the
first way is the one we've already
looked at right we saw the boy looking
through the magnifying glass at a car
this boy here is using a magnifying
glass again to look at at a butterfly
magnify to magnify means to make
something look larger remember a few
lessons ago when we were talking about
minerals I taught you guys magnifying
glass and that's exactly what we're
using do you remember that word I'll
spell it out for you again magnify in
glass and that is a tool that we use to
make things look larger and that is that
thing right here and you can see the
word right here magnify as part of that
word magnify to make something larger do
you have a magnifying glass if you don't
maybe you should go out and buy one
they're not expensive take a look at the
things around you make them larger you
can see the details of something very
well very interesting okay let's take
another look at another vocabulary word
for this lesson heavy when we're talking
about matter we can describe matter
right we can give adjectives to describe
what is an interesting feature or
characteristic of that matter
Hevy means having a lot of weight it's
the opposite of being light what we see
here is that this little weight right
here is made of metal and you see how
small it is even though it's small it's
magnified here right but even though
it's small it weighs a lot because it's
made of a heavy metal and metal of
course weighs a lot even if it's small
it feels heavy and that's of course is
the opposite of light okay and we have
light light means having little weight
not heavy so we have a smaller weight
here right and it's not as heavy as the
previous weight but of course different
materials have different weights as I
said metal is very heavy but a
butterfly's wings those are very light
right so plastic is light metal is heavy
so we have these two different
adjectives to describe the features of
some type of matter some type of thing
okay we another adjective that we can
use when we're talking about observing
matter we can say that we can use the
word hard hard means not easy to break
or bend this looks like a brick right
here right it's not easy to break it
however this brick it's been cracked
right it has cracks in it so maybe that
is easy but if the brick doesn't have
any cracks and you hit the brick don't
do this right don't do that but if you
hit the brick you can't break it right
sometimes you see karate champions you
know they're hitting the brick they're
trying to break it the reason they're
using brick is because it's hard to
break if it was easy anybody can do it
right but the karate champions used a
brick be show that they're very strong
that it's not easy to break it so if
something is hard it's not easy to break
it or to bend it to bend it means to to
make it flex so that it's not straight
you bend it you put a little curve into
it but you can't do that with a brick
right you can't bend a brick
okay well the opposite of hard is soft
soft means easy to bend cut or fold so
something is soft like this nice pillow
here looks
you can sit down on it that's very nice
to sit on your pillows at your home that
you put your head on well of course if
you take your pillow you can bend it
right you can make it curved you can cut
it but don't cut your pillows okay your
mom will kill you or you can fold
something right when you take cloth or
your shirt you can fold your shirts it's
easy to fold it because it's soft it's
very soft material okay here we have
another word this is not an adjective to
describe something this is another way
that we can observe matter it's a
balance it's a noun it's a tool used to
find how heavy something is remember we
talked about heart sorry we talked about
heavy and light before we talked about
the different weights we can put these
weights on one side and the object we
want to weigh on the other side and
because we know the weights of the we
know how much these weights way we can
figure out how much something else
weighs so if you put a teddy bear here
and you put your weights here you can
find out how much your teddy bear weighs
so a balance is used to find out how
heavy something is or how light
something is okay now property is an
interesting word it has a couple of
different meanings usually when we talk
about property we talk about a house or
land this is my property but that's not
the meaning that we're talking about
here when we talk about property in
terms of observing matter we're talking
about anything you learn about an object
by using your senses by the way property
we can also use another word
characteristic character I know it's a
long word right characteristic but a
characteristic is a property it's
something unique or something special
about that object if we say that it is
heavy that is a property of the object
it is a characteristic a characteristic
of that object another word feech
that's a little bit of an easier word
but these words all have similar
meanings property characteristic feature
what is the feature of this object oh I
can fold it very easily what is the
property of this object I can bend it so
these words all have very similar
meanings it's anything we can learn
about an object by using our senses okay
one thing that we can see about an
object a property of an object and this
is a good example of a type of property
characteristic or feature of an object
is that it floats to stand on top of a
liquid that means to float you see this
rubber ducky here this rubber ducky is
light so it stays on the top of the
water
this rubber ducky is not light it's
heavy maybe it has some metal in it so
it didn't float it went to the bottom of
the water so to float is to stay on top
of liquid let's take a bit let's take a
look at a video of this property this
feature this characteristic of some
types of metal look at this this is
really a neat video isn't it it's cool
all these little rubber duckies are
coming around the corner the water is
moving these rubber duckies are floating
on the top of the water we can see how
they are floating it's very very
interesting video isn't it lots of
little rubber duckies maybe you have
some rubber duckies at home in your
bathtub when you take a bath you have
the rubber duckies on the water they
float around right very interesting now
the opposite before we come back to the
same picture we saw that this rubber
duckie is floating but this rubber
duckie is on the bottom its sank to the
bottom toast to sink means to fall to
the bottom of a liquid to fall to the
bottom of a liquid so this rubber duckie
fell down by the way I'm saying that
kind of quickly rubber duckie if you
want to know what exactly I'm saying
there rubber duckie rubber duck right
but I'm just putting a Y on it it's a
duck it's made of rubber we call it a
rubber duckie right so these it's a duck
it's made of rubber
usually rubber floats but if you put
metal inside of it it will sink to the
bottom of the water to fall to the
bottom of a liquid is to sink so we have
two opposites to float to sink these are
properties of matter and properties
remember tell us something about the
matter we can see we use our senses to
find out these properties we can see
that one duck floats the other duck
sinks those are properties to float or
to sink let's move on okay so let's take
a look at a video of somebody using a
magnifying glass here we have the
magnifying glass here and that we see a
person behind it they're kind of out of
focus what's going to happen I wonder
let's take a look and see what happens
here whoa that's pretty scary isn't it
he's got really big eyes what's
happening here you can see how his head
in the background is smaller but his
eyes are a lot larger because the
magnifying glass or the hand the lens is
making his face the features of his face
a lot larger so we can see a really big
eye a really big nose right a really big
nose here as well so it's magnifying his
face making it look larger okay so the
next tool we can use to observe matter
is a ruler a ruler what do we use a
ruler for we use a ruler to find out how
long something is and there's many
different types of rulers you can use to
measure different things if you want to
know how long a pencil is you put it
against a ruler and you can see oh this
pencil is 10 centimeters long for
example so a ruler we can use to find
out how long something is our third tool
that we're talking about in this chart
is a balance remember we saw this word
before we looked at this tool before we
use a balance to find out how heavy
something is the matter that we're
looking at how heavy is it well we use a
balance this is a very expensive balance
very precise balance to use to find out
how heavy something is let's see a video
we didn't see a video before
of how to use a balance let's take a
look so here's our balance right what we
have here are weights on one side or the
other and we're trying to figure out how
much these weigh if this is straight up
and down then we know they're on balance
and this way is the same as this but if
this needle goes to one side or the
other we know one thing is heavier than
the other thing so if this needle goes
that way then we know that this is
heavier than that thing let's take a
look at the video see what happens okay
in this case the needle is going the
other way so we can easily see that this
is heavier oh now it's changing
directions now this is heavier than that
okay so basically a balance will tell
you how heavy something is depending on
what you put on both sides usually what
we put on one side are certain metal
pieces we know the weight of those
things and the other on the other side
we want to put the matter there's
something the thing that we want to know
how heavy it is when they match up and
they're perfectly balanced then we know
they weigh the same thing we know how
much this weighs so then we know how
much that weighs and that's how we
measure things to figure out how much
something weighs how heavy it is
how much does it weigh okay let's move
on we're going to match each word with
its definition so we have our words here
in the box as usual light hard heavy
magnify balanced and soft those are our
words these are the definitions let's
match them up you ready okay number one
a tool used to find out how heavy
something is we just saw the video of
that right do you remember what that
tool was that of course is the balance
the balance the balance to figure out
how heavy something is okay another word
you can use or another expression how
much does it
way how much does it weigh that's the
same thing we use a balance to find out
how much does it weigh how heavy it is
two different ways we can say that okay
let's move on to number two not easy to
break or bend something that's not easy
it's very hard to break it it's very
hard to bend it it is of course hard
it's not easy by the way it's
interesting hard also means not easy
hard to break or bend it's hard so it's
a different meaning of the word hard
hard means difficult also that's a
different meaning of the word but hard
when we're talking about a property of a
substance a property of some type of
matter we say it's you can't break it
you can't bend it you can but it's very
difficult to do that it's very hard to
do that not easy
number three having little weight the
opposite of heavy not heavy the opposite
of heavy of course is light light and
heavy are opposites so something that is
light that's the opposite of being heavy
it doesn't weigh much it doesn't weigh
much how much does it weigh not much
it's light okay let's move on number
four
having a lot of weight not light so the
opposite of light of course is heavy how
much does it weigh it weighs a lot it's
heavy so it's heavy number five to make
something look larger if we're looking
at something we want to see the fine
details of whatever it is we want to
make those details look larger we should
use a magnifying glass or a hand lens
and we want to magnify that thing we
want to make it look larger finally
number six easy to bend easy to cut easy
to fold something that is the opposite
of hard the opposite of hard of course
is soft we can bend it we can cut it but
don't go around cutting soft things in
your house your mom will kill you or we
can fold it right so it's soft we can we
can change it very easily we can change
the shape very easily
it is soft okay here we have a chart and
we're looking at we're gonna use a hand
lens a magnifying glass to look at the
very fine details of something it's
really neat actually go out and get a
hand lens go up by one take a look at
the world around you you'll find a lot
of very amazing and interesting details
we can see different pictures here if we
look at a ladybug a ladybug of course is
this little cute little bug gypsy oh
right very cute bug and we if you see
one crawling around on the plants
outside your house or in the park take
your hand lens take your magnifying
glass look at it in detail you can see
very beautiful colors very interesting
designs on the bug how about the leaf
that the ladybug is crawling on you can
also use your hand lens to look at the
leaf you'll find some amazing sights
here we have the leaf here but if you
look at it real close you can see Wow
very very fine in amazing detail in the
leaf you can see all these little veins
of the plant of the leaf going along the
leaf and very interesting patterns right
and that's what it's really neat taking
a magnifying glass or hand lens around
and looking at nature seeing what's
really in the details of plants and
trees and bugs but be careful which bugs
you look at right okay also another
thing that you can look at that's really
cool to look at and very beautiful is of
course a flower and what are we looking
at here these are the petals of the
flower but this person is using the
magnifying glass to zoom in and to take
a really close look at the pollen or the
the inside of the flower where the
pollen is made and that it's very
interesting we see a lot more detail it
looks like a miniature flower inside the
larger flower very beautiful very
interesting to look at okay so use your
magnifying glass go around take a new
look at the things that are around you
what we're going to do here is we're
going to match the word to each picture
we have pictures of different objects
different things here and we have two
choices to this
scribed these objects right what are the
properties of these objects the first
one what is this a picture of if you
know this this is a type of mineral this
is a type of mineral called a diamond
what are diamonds known for diamonds of
course are very expensive but another
very interesting or another very common
property of diamonds is that they are
very hard right and also people use them
as jewelry why because they catch the
light and they're very what are they
shiny or they do shiny means to reflect
or to give off a lot of light dull means
it's it's not a bright color it's a
darker color so our diamonds bright or
are they dark they're shiny they're
bright they give off a lot of light
actually diamonds they're expensive
they're very hard but they also capture
the light and they reflect the light
they show that light back and and if you
change the angle of the diamond that you
look at you can see the light will come
back to you in many different ways it's
very beautiful
of course many women of course will use
it as for rings for earrings for a dime
diamond necklace but it's very expensive
of course
so diamonds are shiny let's take a look
at here here we have a truck this is a
special kind of truck it's called a dump
truck used in the mining industry very
often or very commonly what can we say
about this dump truck is it a light or
be heavy well think about it
do you think you could pick this truck
up no way you would have to be you know
stronger than Arnold Schwarzenegger to
pick that truck up right that truck is
really really heavy isn't it so this
truck is heavy there's no way this truck
is light right it's very heavy
especially when it has a lot of dirt in
the back of it it's very very heavy so
this truck is heavy let's take a look at
the final picture what is this picture
of it's a picture of a very colorful
pillow where we talked about pillows
before so when you go to bed at night
you have a pillow under your head do you
want to have your pillow do you want
your pillow to be hard or do you want
your pillow to be soft
hopefully your pillow is soft because if
you have a hard pillow that's gonna be
uncomfortable right you may not be able
to sleep very well so you want to have a
soft pillow pillows are soft we can push
them we can bend them don't cut them but
you could cut it and you can fold it too
if you wanted to
okay so pillows are soft okay let's move
on we have our true/false questions if
the statement is true Circle T if it is
false Circle F the first one a hard
object is easy to break when we talked
about hard the adjective hard of the
property of being hard we said that it
was difficult to break it's difficult to
bend so this is not true it's not easy
to break a hard object is difficult or
not easy difficult to break that would
be true so it's not easy to break so
that's false it's not easy it's
difficult number two
a property is anything you learn about
an object a property is anything you
learn about an object when we talked
about property remember I also taught
you characteristic and feature these are
things we can say about an object is it
hard is it soft does it float does it
sink these are properties so anything we
learn about an object true is a property
that is true number three a balance a
balance remember is one of the tools we
can use to discover properties about
matter what do we use a balance for what
kind of tool is it a balance measures
how long something is how long something
is that doesn't make sense right if we
want to know how long something is we
don't use a balance what should we use
instead of a balance we should use a
ruler so if the sentence said a ruler
that would be true but a balance no this
is false what do we use a balance for if
we keep balance we change the other part
of the sentence a balance measures how
heavy something is that would be true
but this
is wrong right because we either need to
change the tool or we need to change the
property okay
well that wraps it up for their
vocabulary for this section and then
we're gonna take a short break we're
gonna come back and we take a look at
the reading passage okay see you soon
okay welcome back we're continuing in
lesson 13 observing matter and we're
going over the reading passage our topic
sentence for the reading passage is all
matter has properties remember when we
talked about properties what are
properties a property is the way
something looks tastes feels sounds or
smells right so our main sentence here
is that we're going to be talking about
properties then we define what
properties means that's a very good
organization right so in fact there's a
couple of definitions there's really two
definitions we're talking about here
won't is we're saying that a property is
something that we can detect about
something using our senses but size
shape and colors are also properties of
course we can see those we can sense
those but when we talk about properties
we're also talking about how big
something is what is its shape what does
it look like and what color is it okay
so these are all properties properties
are something we can say about an object
one of the characteristics one of the
features of some type of matter all
matter all things have properties okay
so we're going to look at some details
about the general sentences that we just
saw so the main part the main sentence
was all matter has properties we saw the
definition now we're gonna have some
examples of what we're talking about
we're gonna have some details that's
good organization and a good way to set
up or to introduce these details we use
the expression for example for example a
broom is hard so a broom something you
sweep the floor with the handle is hard
right it's hard to break it's not easy
to break or to bend that handle but our
rabbits fur is soft we have opposites a
broom is hard rabbits fur is soft these
are properties
we have a lot more examples on this page
on this in this paragraph a piece of
iron sinks to the bottom of the water
but a leaf floats on the water so these
are also properties of these different
types of matter iron and leaf so iron is
heavy it will sink to the bottom a leaf
is light it floats on the top these are
also properties an elephant an elephant
is very big right but an ant is very
small again opposites so we're showing
an example of something very big and an
example of something very small again
these are all properties finally rocks
are heavy but a feather is light a
feather right that slowly falls to the
ground because it is light so rocks are
heavy but a feather is light these are
all examples of properties right so we
have a lot of details a lot of good
examples of different type of properties
of matter next we're going to talk about
how we can observe matter how we can
observe the properties of matter how do
we know something is like how do we know
something is heavy well we can use tools
to learn more about the properties of
matter we can use a hand lens to magnify
so if we want to see the details about
something we want to see exactly what
something looks like the shape or the
size of something we can and it's very
small it's hard to see we can use a hand
lens or a magnifying glass to magnify
something to make a very tiny thing look
big ok then maybe this boy wants his car
to be a lot bigger right he wants to
drive around in it no I'm just kidding
maybe he just wants to look at the
details of the small car ok we can use a
balance to tell the weight of an object
so this is another tool we can use to
observe matter we can also use a ruler
to see how long a thing is so 3 tools
we've talked about hand lens a balance
and a ruler just to discover the
properties of something right what
something looks like how much does it
weigh how long is it we can find the
properties these properties of objects
by using these
different tools okay let's look at the
reading skill for the passage that we
just went over together the reading
skill that we're talking about here is
compare and contrast and this was a good
passage to talk about remember we talked
about the elephant is very big the ant
is very small in this case we are
contrasting them we are showing how they
are different so to compare something is
to show how things are similar to
contrast things is to show how they are
different so when we talk about property
when we talk about sorry when we talk
about matter or things we can talk about
the properties we can talk about how
things are similar are the same we can
talk about how things are different this
is a good passage for this so we have
things that are alike it means that they
are the same or similar we have things
that are different they're not the same
they're different from each other over
here we have a passage we have a blank
here and we have things there seems to
be there's more different things than
there are things that are alike right
but anyway we have to fill in these
blanks here these are the words we have
down the bottom small ruler hard wait
properties let's fill in the blanks
things that are alike
everything is matter so everything that
you see around you everything that you
see that you touch that you taste all of
these things are matter what does all
matter have in common how is all matter
alike we can say all matter has what
small ruler hard weight or properties
properties right because properties is
are the features the characteristics
something we can say about the matter to
describe it so when we want to describe
matter we talk about the properties all
matter has properties that's how all
matter is alike how are things different
well things can be deep or soft big or
beep so we're looking for two different
properties here right soft big our
properties we're looking for two more
properties where are two more properties
here small ruler hard weight where any
use properties so which of these are
properties
well something that is small that's a
property something that is hard that's a
property ruler is a tool and weight is
what weight is a kind of a property but
it's not used in this case because
things can be for example hard they can
be soft big or small those are the
adjectives that we need to use here
weight is a noun we're not looking for a
noun here we're looking for an adjective
to describe something so here a balance
tells us the BEP of an object so again
this is a property but we're looking for
a noun that is a property okay and the
noun of course is weight a balance tells
us the weight of an object what is the
weight now here we have adjectives so we
can use adjectives to describe
properties we can also use nouns to
describe properties the last one here a
beep
tells us how long something is so we
need a tool here right so we're gonna
measure a certain property of a certain
type of matter we need a tool which one
of these are tools the only tool we can
see is ruler a ruler tells us how long
something is right there are different
tools we talked about ruler balance hand
lens or magnifying glass only the ruler
tells us how long something is so we
have to pay attention to this here ok so
that is our chart that is how we can
compare and contrast different things
now let's do some comprehension
questions we need to fill in the blank
with one of the three choices a B or C
you can use a beep to measure how long
something is we just talked about this
on the previous slide right what is the
tool that we use to answer the question
how long is something do we use a
balance or ruler or a hand lens we use a
balance to measure how heavy something
is so it's not balanced ruler we use a
ruler to measure how long yes that's
right
the answer is ruler because we want to
know how long it is we talk about a
ruler a hand lens we use a hand lens to
not to measure something but to see the
small deep
tails or the interesting small features
or properties of an object we want to
magnify we want to make it larger to see
it in detail so we're not really
measuring something with a hand lens
we're just examining it in more detail
so the answer is a ruler number two what
are two tools again we're talking about
tools again what are two tools you can
use to measure a property so we're
looking for two of these basically this
kind of an easy follow-up question a
heavy and light are heavy and light
tools now they're not tools they're
properties so it can't be a a is
obviously not the right answer
shape and color shape and color are
tools again no shape and color are not
tools they are properties so again B is
not correct C balanced and ruler yeah
these are all our tools that we talked
about balance is a tool ruler is a tool
so the correct answer is C what are two
tools you can use to measure a property
of something a balance and a ruler are
two tools they're not the only tools but
they're two of many tools actually we
have many many tools more than just
these three we have many many tools to
measure the properties of different
things we're just talking about three
here
let's move on okay so we're moving on to
number three if you want to look at a
very small thing again we're talking
about a tool we've got a a B or C so if
you want to look at a very small thing
we're talking about the tool that we're
going to be using to look at that very
small thing so let's look at the other
part of the sentence a you can measure
it with a hand lens okay B you can use a
hand lens to magnify it C you can
magnify it with the balance so which one
of these is the proper match or true
statement that we can match with the
first part if you want to look at a very
small thing now don't be fooled because
a could be tricky because we see hand
lens yeah that's the tool that we use to
look at a very small thing but remember
like I said before in the previous slide
we're not measuring you don't measure
something with it
and lens you're taking a better look at
it
so a is the correct is not the correct
answer not the correct answer here okay
B you can use a hand lens to magnify it
okay good we have the tool that's
correct and we have the proper use of
the tool we don't measure something with
the magnifying glass right the other
tools we measure how heavy it is how
long it is but a magnifying glass we're
not measuring something we're just
magnifying something we're making it
larger that's not measuring it that's
just getting a better look at it so we
can use a hand lens to magnify that is
the correct answer see this the go over
it for practice you can magnify it with
a balance remember a balance we don't
use to magnify something we use a
balance to see how heavy it is how much
does it weigh so that's obviously wrong
too
okay let's move on to number four a
feather remember a feather is very light
a feather will float on water true a
feather is it's got a large surface but
it's very light so it will sit on top of
the water but a piece of iron iron is
smaller surface very heavy right what
will a piece of iron do we know a piece
of iron is heavy a lot heavier than a
feather so if we put the iron in water
what will it do a it will also float on
the water
iron will float on the water no it's too
heavy
that's absolutely not be it will sink to
the bottom of the water well if it
doesn't float
obviously it's gonna sink to the bottom
of the water that B is correct let's
take a look at C it will sink to the
bottom of the water like a leaf this is
the tricky part right true it will sink
to the bottom of the water just like B
but like a leaf leaf a leaf will not
sink so this part is wrong so C is not
correct even though it's very similar to
B B is the correct answer
iron will sink to the bottom the water
stop okay not like a leaf leaf will stay
on the surface with the feather but the
iron will sink to the bottom and those
are properties of these different things
okay let's finish up we have our chart
that we looked at before
again this chart is talking about tools
to observe matter so these are things
that we use to measure or to observe the
things that are around us the first item
that we have it's a we have a handle
here we have a glass on the inside we
use this tool to magnify something to
make things appear larger we don't use
it to measure what is it it is of course
a hand lens we use it to magnify matter
remember you can also say magnifying
glass okay the next one we use this tool
here are these tools here to observe to
measure how long something is so we want
to know how long something is we'll use
one of these tools and these tools of
course are a ruler a ruler we use to
find out how long it is how long is it
well use a ruler you'll find out finally
our last tool over here we want to know
how much something weighs how much does
it weigh how heavy is it
so we use a balance to find out how
heavy it is this is a balance okay so it
was very interesting lesson we've talked
about how to observe matter we've looked
at three different tools that we can use
to help us observe matter when we are
observing matter what are we doing we're
finding out the properties what are the
properties of this thing and remember
there are many different types of
properties is it heavy is it light is it
big is it small does it float does it
sink what are the characteristics
features what are the properties of this
matter so it's very interesting to take
a look around you and to figure out how
can you describe the different things in
your environment okay well I hope you've
learned a lot as usual we'll see you
guys next time take care
