ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 10
[Heatâ€‹](https://youtu.be/WKFot38PFBg)

Heat is a kind of energh. Heat, light, sound and electricity are forms of energy. Energy is something that makes things work or causes changes. Heat comes from many things.  The Sun warms the Earthâ€™s land, water, and air. We get heat from burning things like wood or gas. Lamps produce light and also make heat. Rubbing your hands together warms your hands. Heat is an important energy for us. Heat makes ice melt. Heat warms our body and our homes in winter. We also use heat to cook. 
We can cook food on a stove . 


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart well today in this
lesson we have a special lesson for you
it's heat right lesson number 10 heat
hot right like this shirt it's very hot
ok in this lesson you will discover
where heat comes from and what heat can
do so of course when we look at this
this is heat this looks like the Sun a
lot of heat is coming off the Sun ok
when things get hot they get really red
and really shiny right kind of like what
I'm wearing
ok but anyway let's move on heat what is
heat when we talk about heat what is
heat heat is a kind of energy we've been
talking a bit about in other lessons and
in this book about energy heat is a type
of energy there are many kinds of energy
right we can talk about electricity we
can talk about wind we can talk about
emotion you know our bodies those are
all different types of energy heat is
just one more type of energy but this
special energy this type of energy makes
things hot right so things get hot from
heat and as we can see a fire is a good
example of heat heat energy if you put
your hand close to the fire not too
close but you will feel the heat it's
hot and you will feel the heat from the
fire ok when we talk about energy right
energy I just said that there are many
types of energy heat is only one type of
energy but energy is power right energy
is power power remember is something
that makes change right so power that
makes things work in other words
electricity makes your computer work
electricity makes your cell phone work
or it causes change this is important
causes change without energy with no
energy there's no change so if we want
change in our lives we have to use some
type of energy otherwise things will
never change so if we want change we
need energy ok so where does energy come
from we get we use a lot of machines to
get energy right we see an oil rig over
here we're getting oil wind and nuclear
and also solar power right we get energy
from a lot of different places and these
are all pictures that show how we can
get energy and also how energy is used
and with different types of energy as
well but of course we're talking about
heat and when we talk about heat we can
use the word warm of course
warm means to make something hot if you
warm something here warm is used as a
verb warm can be a verb or it can be an
adjective but here we're using it as a
verb because warm means to make to make
to do something to make something hot
means to warm it so for example if you
want dinner right and your mom says ok
let me warm up something for you you
don't want to eat pizza maybe there's
pizza in the refrigerator but it's cold
you don't want cold pizza so mom says
let me warm up the pizza for you if your
body is cold you want to warm your body
next to a fire so warm means to make
something hot or hot earth right of
course these girls don't want to become
hot right maybe it's too hot they just
want to warm up but it increases the
temperature so warm means to make
something hot ok what's one way we can
get heat we can get heat by rubbing at
things rub again is a verb just like
warm because to do something rub means
to move two things in this case his
hands move two things together but
quickly right if you rub your hands
together very quickly right you rub them
together go ahead and do that yeah are
you rubbing your hands do you feel
warmth do you feel heat of course you do
you feel heat on the parts of your hands
that are touching each other by the way
a long long time ago this is how people
made fire they rubbed two pieces of wood
together really fast really fast and it
would cause so much heat that it would
start to burn and that's how they made
fire okay so to rub rub means to move
two things together quickly and you can
make heat that way it's very interesting
try it out but don't rub too hard right
just do it a little bit okay well you
can feel it instantly you can feel the
heat starting to be generated okay
another place that we get heat is a
stove be careful of the stove okay stove
of course is a noun it's an object right
a stove is a piece of kitchen equipment
it's a piece of equipment it's a tool
that you use what do you use it for you
use it to cook food using heat you can
see the top of the stove here by the way
that's an interesting point this stove
is only this part here this is the stove
stove top the bottom part is an oven
oven so we open the door we put things
in the oven we cook things on the stove
on the top so yeah this is usually one
piece of equipment but there's two parts
the top part is the stove the bottom
part is the oven they're both equipment
that cook food using heat you can put
something here the heat on the top of
the stove don't touch this that's too
hot you can put something up here and it
will heat your food or you can put
something inside the oven and it will
heat your food so we have stove and we
have oven okay this same piece of
equipment stove is on top oven is in the
in the middle they both use heat in
order to cook food because you don't
want to eat cold chicken right you want
hot chicken right you want your food to
be hot you don't want cold soup you want
to put it on the stove
to make it hot so that you have hot soup
okay also what else can we talk about
here we have a lamp a lamp is a device a
device piece of equipment a tool that
uses electricity to produce what we want
light so a lamp as this girl is using a
lamp to do her homework she's using a
lamp but you know there's also heat
coming off here not just light but also
heat is coming off the lamp you have to
be careful don't touch the lamp it's hot
too right so heat is also coming from
the lamp now heat sources so what kinds
of heat sources do we have we've talked
about some of these here we saw the
picture at the beginning of the unit of
the Sun of course the Sun is the star
that is in our solar system that's where
we get for thousands and thousands
millions of years we have gotten heat
from the Sun the Sun warms the earth
okay so the Sun will provide heat to the
earth that's one very very important
heat source another heat source that's
important is fire right we can make fire
remember I told you a long time ago
people rubbed two pieces of wood
together to make fire now this person is
using the stovetop to to heat something
up looks like they have a fire in their
kitchen I don't know if this is
intentional or unintentional intentional
means that they want to do it
intentional maybe they want this is a
style of cooking they want the food to
burn on the top with fire some people do
that you see that in some movies but it
could be an accident - it could be oh no
there's a fire turn it off and put it
out right put it under water so a fire
is also a heat source be careful with
fire fire can be very dangerous rubbing
hands we did that experiment right we
rubbed our hands and we created heat so
rubbing hands is a heat source and
finally we saw the lamp the lamp can
also be a heat
source sure produces light but light is
also giving off heat and that's why
don't touch that light bulb this by the
way is a light bulb it is inside your
lamp and this thing will give off light
but it will also give off heat a lot of
heat so be careful about touching it it
could be very hot ok ok everybody let's
go over the definitions of the words we
just learned
ok let's match the word to the
definition here are our words energy
lamp rub heat lamp stove these are our
definitions let's match them number one
a device that uses electricity to
produce light and remember it also
produces Heat what is this device you
use it to study by this of course is
called a lamp right so a lamp is a
device it uses electricity as its energy
and it produces life but it also
produces heat light produces heat as
well number two to move two things
together quickly right you will do this
to your hands and you generate heat what
are you doing with your hands you are
rubbing them to rub two rub something
means to move them together very quickly
you're rubbing them together number
three - make something hot if you want
to make something hot we're looking for
a verb
what verb is that you're increasing the
temperature of something you are going
to warm it to warm it to make something
hot you warm it up okay let's move on
number four a piece of kitchen equipment
that cooks food using heat so we're
looking for a piece of a kitchen
equipment it's equipment found in the
kitchen it's in your kitchen you cook
food with it and it uses heats so what
is that remember this it's one piece of
equipment but there's two parts to
there's a top part and a bottom part
right of course we're talking about the
top part we say it's a stove
remember the bottom part is called an
oven okay top part is a stove number
five power that makes things work or
causes changes so anything you know if
we want things to change if we don't
want things to stay the same all the
time we need something what do we need
we need some kind of power we need
energy right we need energy we need some
type of power that makes things work
like your computer your cell phone
something like that or causes changes
causes a change in temperature right
from cold to hot we need energy to make
things work or to cause changes finally
number six a kind of energy so this is a
kind of energy a type of energy that
makes things hot and that of course is
the title of our unit that of course is
Heat we're talking about heat in this
unit it is a type of energy a kind of
energy remember there's lots of
different kinds of energy right when we
talked about the lamp that uses
electricity that's a different type of
energy but we're talking about this type
of energy heat it makes things hot okay
so let's move on to our chart here here
we have a the chart about how heat
changes things so this chart shows us
how heat changes things some different
ways and we can see these different
methods or different uses for heat over
here we have ice these are ice cubes
right ice cubes
now heat makes ice melt ice cube
remember from a previous lesson is a
solid when we want to change something
from a solid to a liquid and then to a
gas what do we do we increase the
temperature so of course heat makes
solid water turn into a liquid it may
I smell let's take a look at the video
of the two ice cubes now of course this
is very fast
you know they sped up the the time but
look at what those two solid pieces of
water just kind of changed into liquid
and they just went on down and they
changed into liquid just like that we
saw a good computer model right there
okay
so the next thing we use heat can do
heat cooks food are you hungry
I've got some hamburger patties here we
got some hamburgers looks like
somebody's cooking hamburgers we don't
want to eat the raw meat look right raw
meat raw meat is the cold meat it hasn't
been cooked
that's this meat up here this is cooked
meat that's what we want to eat we want
to use heat to cook our food so let's
take a look at a video here here's a
similar thing it's a barbecue and
they're using the heat source the coals
on the bottom that's where the heat is
from and they look at the difference in
the time in the meat as they flip it
over before it's cooked it's pink it's
cooler it's probably not very delicious
but as you put it on the heat it turns
brown and it tastes more delicious right
so you flip it over and you cook both
sides using heat finally what's going on
in here this is in a factory where
they're making some type of metal
products heat makes metal melt
so over here we saw how ice this is
solid water right solid water ice
doesn't need a lot of heat to melt but
think about metal metal is a solid metal
doesn't normally melt you very rarely if
ever see liquid metal but of course
anything any matter any substance you
add enough heat it will change from
solid to liquid to gas right so if you
have a metal and you heat it up it will
melt it will melt and but you need a lot
of heat let's take a look at a video of
that here we have the
liquid metal this is metal inside here
but it's so so hot that it's look at the
color it's very very bright it almost
has no color it's just very bright very
bright a liquid metal and look at all
the heat coming off there they're
pouring the metal into these molds into
these molds to make the metal make it
into a certain shape so if you want to
make a product you know any type of tool
like a hammer or wrench or some other
type of equipment made from metal you
have to heat it up so it's liquid and
then pour it into a mold to make it into
the shape that you want it to be in so
that's very interesting
okay so choose the thing or things which
can be melted by heat but be careful
remember not all things melt right not
all things about some things don't melt
if there's too much heat they'll burn
instead let's take a look hey can we
melt ice with heat yeah we just saw a
video of that that's true we can melt
ice with heat if you put enough heat you
will melt the ice what about B what is
this this is a pale right a pale you
could also call it a bucket a bucket and
a pail are the same thing what's it made
of it's made of metal can we can we melt
metal with heat yeah we just saw the
video we just saw that video where we
saw that you can melt metal with heat if
you want to make a pale or a bucket out
of metal you have to heat up that metal
whether it's aluminum tin steel whatever
you have to heat that metal so high that
becomes a liquid and then you can pour
it into this shape you can use it to
make this shape okay finally over here
we have paper this is paper it's folded
into an elephant if we add enough heat
to this paper will it melt no it won't
melt it'll burn okay
so that's interesting not all things can
be melted
for example paper and wood they don't
melt they burn okay so that's inter
okay he is energy that makes things cold
heat is energy that makes things cold
does that sound right if you put heat to
something it makes it cold no that
doesn't make sense heat is energy that
makes things hot right
not cold so that's false okay number two
when you rub your hands you move your
hands together right you're moving your
hands together that's true that sounds
correct so when you rub your hands
you're moving your hands together that
is true number three a stove type of
equipment it's a device that produces
electricity so when we want electricity
we make electricity with our stove right
no wrong
we don't make electricity with a stove
it's a device that produces not
electricity but heats right actually we
can say a stove is a device that uses
electricity elec tree oops
elec trip sit oh my pen doesn't work
uses electricity sorry about that that's
an R and then an I uses electricity to
produce heat so we could say that a
stove is a device that uses electricity
to produce heat that would be true so we
have to change the sentence a lot it's
false right okay so we have our three
sentences here okay so let's take a
short break here and we're going to move
into the reading section next okay
welcome back we're going over a reading
passage
the topic is heat so what is heat
basically this passage will describe
what heat is it will also tell us some
other features of heat and what we use
heat for first of all we have heat is a
kind of energy so heat is a type or kind
of energy type whoops type or kind of
energy heat is a type of energy heat is
a kind of energy
heat light sound and electricity are
forms of energy so these are all
different types of energy we talked
about that right heat is just one type
of energy there's so many different
kinds of energy that we have light we
have sound we have electricity we have
heat many different types of energy
energy what is energy well we know what
types of energy is but what is energy
energy is something that makes things
work or causes changes remember we saw
that energy is power - right it's some
type of power that makes things work or
causes change so if we want to make
things work like our elect our
television or our computer or our mp3
player whatever we need electricity we
need energy if we want to cause a change
we have a cold food or a raw hamburger
patty we want to change that into a
cooked hamburger patty then we need to
use energy we need to use heat so energy
is something that makes things work or
causes changes its power power to make
our lives better we need energy
so heat comes from many things there's
many ways we can get heat of course the
Sun warms the Earth's land water and air
so the Sun is you know the oldest heat
source on earth right the Sun has always
been there and the Sun has always been
providing heat to the earth so the Sun
is the oldest heat source for the earth
but there are other ways we can get heat
- okay we can also get heat from burning
things okay not just from the Sun but
also from burning things what do we burn
we burn wood or we burn gas right not
all things melt if you increase the heat
sometimes if you increase the heat too
much it will start to burn not melt and
burn if it
Bern's it's creating fire that's fire
and of course fire makes heat which is
energy to warm things so we get heat
from burning things like wood or gas
also we can see lamps lamps of course
produce light you probably have a lamp
on your desk at home you use the lamp to
to read your book but on a winter's day
or when it's cold and you get close to
the lamp you'll notice that your lamp
also makes heat don't do this but if you
touch that light bulb in your lamp it's
hot so don't touch it
but it's producing heat not just light
but also heat another way to get heat is
to rub your hands together like this boy
down here is doing he's rubbing his
hands together and we do this on a cold
day when our hands are cold we rub our
hands together it warms our hands ok so
that's another way that we can get heat
heat of course is very important energy
for us our bodies need to stay warm if
our bodies get too cold that could be
very dangerous so always make sure
you're wearing enough clothes on a
winter's day or that you stay inside or
near a heat source right heat is very
important energy for us we use heat also
in many different ways
heat makes ice melt so if we want ice to
melt into water we can apply heat heat
warms our body and our homes in the
winter like I said we want to make sure
our bodies stay warm if our bodies get
too cold we could die it's dangerous so
heat helps warm our bodies and it warms
our homes in the winter time a very
important use of heat too is that we use
heat to cook right especially meat we
don't like to eat raw meat look right we
want to cook that meat it's also
healthier too if you don't eat raw
chicken that could be dangerous you want
to cook the chicken well before you eat
it ok so we use heat to cook and we also
I'll cook of course lots of different
soups soups soups are better when
they're hot instead of cold so we use
heat in many different ways to cook our
food we can cook food where do we cook
food we cook food on a stove we cook
food on a stove we also cook food in and
oven now I talked about these two things
before let's just talk a little bit
about types what do we cook on a stove
well we cook soup we can cook we can fry
things like rice and vegetables we can
cook things on the stove we can also put
things in the oven something that we
usually use ovens for is to cook bread
or to make a cake or to make cookies we
used to we need to use an oven we can't
make cookies on the stovetop right
they'll get burned too fast an oven puts
heat all over something so we use an
oven to cook things like bread cake
cookies also some types of meat you can
roast a chicken or a turkey in your oven
okay but you can also cook meat on your
stove but usually oven is used for
baking things okay let's take a look at
a video okay what are these two boys
doing they're using heat to cook food
but I don't know if this is really food
what are these boys doing what do they
have there they have Marsh mellows we
call these marsh mellows marshmallow now
of course you know what a marshmallow is
you've probably seen that before they
sometimes come in different colors the
traditional ones when I was a kid I
remember they're big and they're white
and you can stick them on sticks like
these boys are doing you see that and
they put them over the fire now I think
these boys I want to give them a little
advice he's putting it too close to fire
see it's burning now his marshmallow is
on fire that's probably not very good
way to cook your marshmallow I remember
when I was a kid we would go out in the
mountains in the forest make a fire at
night we would eat and then for dessert
we would put marshmallows on a stick put
them in the fire like this and then cook
them but you don't want to get them on
fire right you don't want them to turn
lack the trick is to turn them slowly
close to the fire so they turn brown all
the way around and if you do that then
they taste good but if they turn black
look it's like eating ash it doesn't
taste very good okay so they're making
marshmallows over a fire they're cooking
marshmallows over a fire okay we have
our reading skill here we have the main
idea and details our main idea is that
heat is a kind of what heat is a kind of
what what would we use here of course we
can see heat is a kind of energy that's
what we're looking at heat is a kind of
energy there are many kinds of energy
heat is one kind of energy that's our
main and idea
that's our main idea that that involves
the whole it covers the whole topic of
what we're talking about heat is our
subject what is heat heat is a type of
energy what kind of details can we use
to support that idea we can see that
there are different types of heat
sources so let's go over these our words
here are the Sun rubbing lamps burning
and we already used energy so over here
we need to film the blank something
warms the Earth's land water and air so
what warms the Earth's land water and
air what of the what a thing down here
does that you should choose of course
the Sun we talked about that the Sun has
been warming the earth for millions and
millions of years right so the Sun warms
the Earth's land water and air we get
most of our heat from the Sun we also
get heat from be things like wood or gas
so what what does would do what does gas
do when we put a lot of heat to wood
when we put a lot of heat to gas what
happens do they melt no they burn so we
get heat from burning things like wood
or gas when we burn wood we get heat
when we burn gas we get heat so we get
heat from burning some things over here
something produces
light and also makes heat what is it of
course lamps notice the s so we don't
use s here or here lamps produce light
and also make heat if we put a lamp like
that well then we would need s a lamp
produces light and also makes heat but
we have s so we're okay lamps produce
light and also make heat that's true so
lamps lamps produce light but be careful
they also produce heat finally if you do
something to your hands it warms your
hands if you do something to your hands
together right what are we doing here we
are rubbing so rubbing your hands
together warms your hands and we can see
that very easily it's a very easy
experiment isn't it so rubbing your
hands together warms your hands you are
creating energy you are creating heat
okay let's go over our reading
comprehension questions number one what
do we use to make light so what we're
looking for an object some object some
device that we use to do what we want to
make light we want to make light what do
we use to make light do we use ice to
make light that's kind of silly isn't it
we don't use ice to make light we use
ice to make things cool B do we use
lamps to make light sure you bet we may
we use lamps to make light we don't use
sounds to make light that doesn't make
sense okay so our answer is B number two
what can he do what can he do to metal
and ice so when we talk about increasing
the heat of some solid now most things
when you increase the heat it will melt
from a solid to a liquid some things as
we saw is not always true like wood and
paper they burn and gas but metal and
ice if you have a solid metal and you
have solid water ice is solid water if
you increase the heat what happens what
can he do to them it can make them melt
right that's true
we can use heat to melt metal or ice B
to make them burn does metal and ice
burn
well of course water doesn't burn that's
crazy metal doesn't burn either but
metal will melt to make them cook we
can't make metal or ice cook right well
only people can cook things right or we
can cook food but we we can't use heat
to make metal and ice cook right and we
don't eat metal or ice that's silly - so
our correct answer is a heat can melt
metal or ice and ice okay let's move on
to number three how do we usually warm
our homes so think about that it's cold
it's winter BRR it's cold inside your
home how do we usually warm our homes
what can we do to make our homes warmer
can we melt ice on the stove will that
make our house warmer well maybe but
that's kind of silly why are we melting
ice that's kind of silly to do that's
not the right answer
by burning things like wood or gas sure
we saw the picture before of the two
girls in front of the fireplace they
were burning wood so they were burning
wood and of course we can burn gas and
that makes our home warmer by rubbing
your hands together quickly that will
make our home warm that will make only
our hands warm okay so it won't make our
home warm it'll only make our hands warm
so B is the correct answer there number
four heat comes from many things of
course there are many sources of heat
such as a sound light and electricity
electricity yes he comes from
electricity he comes from light true but
does he come from sound no that's not
right he does not come from sound not
sound this is true this is true but this
is not true be burning things and the
Sun he comes from many things such as
burning things and the Sun that's
he does come from burning things true
and it also comes from the Sun so our
correct answer is B let's take a look at
C heat comes from many things such as
ice he comes from ice no ice if you put
ice on something it makes it cooler it's
the opposite effect right so ice doesn't
make heat he doesn't come from ice
that's not correct he does come from
lamps true and the Sun true so yes yes
but no our only true answer is B because
both are all the things listed under B
are heat sources and that's true ok
finally let's wrap up with our heat
sources very similar to question number
4 in the reading comprehension where
does he come from what do we name these
things here we have a huge ball of gas
of course this thing is a huge ball of
gas in the sky it's burning right so
what do we call that
of course we call it the Sun right and
we see that every day when we wake up
even if it's overcast or cloudy we can
still see light from the Sun coming down
the Sun is a very old source of heat
a very old source of heat it's always
been with us our second source a second
heat source here we can see flames
coming up something is burning so when
something is burning there is a fire so
fire creates heat and that's another
heat source down here this happy boy is
doing what with his hands that's another
heat source he's causing friction he's
rubbing his hands together that is
causing heat ok so that's a heat source
finally over here I taught you guys
light bulb light produces what it
produces light light also produces heat
so lights will also produce heat you'll
notice that with your reading lamp on
your desk as you turn it on you get
light but from the light also you get
Heat
ok so these are many different heat
sources our unit topic of course was
heat we've talked about heat sources
we've talked about other types of energy
and we've talked about certain things
you know things some things that melt
and some things that we burn of course
to get heat sources or how heat affects
things okay well this is a very
interesting lesson talking about Heat my
my shirt seems very hot right now I
think I got it gonna wrap it up here
we'll see you guys next time take care
everybody