ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

Part 1 Life Science
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 03
[Adaptations for Survival: https://youtu.be/serA5khGRvMâ€‹]

# Adaptations for Survival
Plants and animals have adaptations that help them survive. An adaption is a body part or behavior that helps a living thing meet its need. For example, some animals have spikes all around their body which are very spiny so that they protect themselves from enemies.  Wild animals have adaptations. 
Carnivores like tigers have sharp teeth for eating meat. Unlike carnivores, hervivores have flat teeth for eating plants. Camouflage is another adaptation. Camouflage is the color or shape of an animal that makes it blend in with its environment. A chameleon can change the color of its body so that it cannot be seen easily.

Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart let's
continue learning about animals in this
lesson lesson number three we're talking
about adaptations adaptations for
survival
you will discover adaptations of living
things adaptations is kind of a long
word isn't it it comes from a verb to
adapt to adapt what does to adapt mean
to adapt means to change animals change
we change too if our environment if our
surroundings change we have to change
with our environment think about this if
you move to a new country you have to
learn a new language you have to learn a
new culture you have to adapt you have
to change to the new environment so
adaptations are changes that living
things make when they change environment
or when they want to survive in their
environment because the environment is
always changing let's take a look in
this lesson how living things change
according to their environment and that
is adaptation let's take a look of
course adaptation I talked about an
adaptation is a body part or behavior
that helps a living thing meet its needs
so we have a body part or behavior that
the animal will change as part of its
body in order to survive or to meet its
needs if we take a look at a giraffe
giraffes grew very long necks over a
very long time right this is how their
bodies have changed in order to meet
their needs
of course animals need food we talked
about that before so animals to chain
to their environment they will grow
different body parts very interesting
body parts in order to adapt or change
to their environment trees that have
very high branches how can they get the
food they can grow a long neck and
that's what a giraffe did here so that's
an adaptation camouflage is another
adaptation that animals will use look at
this cute little puppy it's probably not
a puppy that you want in your house it's
a baby wolf right you don't want wolves
in your house right but it's kind of
cute when they're babies camouflage is a
color or shape that helps an animal hide
you can see that this animal here has
white fur it's in the cold snow so it
blends in it blends in to the background
right it's hard to see let's take a look
at a video we have a video here's mama
wolf right she's looking for her baby
he's on the other slide okay let's take
a look at the video we can see that the
very beautiful wolf here right and this
wolf lives way up north in the Arctic
and there's a lot of snow in the Arctic
now if this wolf was brown or gray or
black other animals would be able to see
it very well and here's mama wolf coming
to say hello right so other animals
could see it very well if they were
different colors but because they are
white because they have camouflage into
the background these wolves can come
close to other animals that they eat
more easily right they want to hide in
the background they don't want other
animals to see them because the other
animals will run away they want to catch
the other animals so their body fur is
white to blend in to the surrounding
snow they're using camouflage to do that
and of course you know if you see wolves
some wolves will change the color of
their fur in the spring or summer
they'll be brown and in the winter their
coat their fur changes to white so some
animals will change
we'll adapt with the changing seasons so
that's very interesting now another
thing that we can talk about animals and
adaptation of course all animals need
food right there's two kinds of food
sources other animals or plants now some
animals have developed they have changed
their bodies so that they only eat other
animals we call those animals carnivores
a carnivore is an animal that only eats
meat so a carnivore only eats meat a
carnivore is at the top of the food
chain that's an interesting one food
chain what is a food chain if you think
about it plants would be very at the
bottom plants are at the bottom here
what eats plants well deer can eat
plants right deer will eat plants but
what eats deer wolves will eat deers
wolves okay so this is a very simple
food chain what eats wolves
nothing eats wolves right until they die
of course but nobody nothing hunts
wolves that would be very dangerous
right wolves hunt other animals so this
is a very simple food chain the bottom
of the food chain is plants deers eat
plants wolves eat deer wolves are at the
top of the food chain wolves eat other
animals they are carnivores just like a
bear is a carnivore it eats other
animals it's eating a fish here what
eats a bear
nothing eats a bear right the Bears just
grow old and die so bears are also at
the top at the top of the food chain and
that's what we mean when we talk about
the food chain you have the bottom and
then you have the top if something eats
something else it's not at the top if
nothing eats it then it is at the top of
the food chain okay herbivore and
herbivore is another type of animal
right this type of animal only eats
plant
and herbivore is an animal that only
eats plants like this cute little rabbit
here and a rabbit is an herbivore now
think about what I just told you about
the food chain right we have plants at
the bottom then we have a rabbit that
eats the plants does anything eat the
rabbit yes unfortunately sorry cute
rabbit wolves will eat rabbits eagles
big birds will eat rabbits foxes will
eat rabbits so rabbits are not at the
top of the food chain they're in the
middle of the food chain right they eat
plants but something will eat the rabbit
so rabbits are not at the top of the
food chain they're in the middle
somewhere ok wild
being wild means living are growing in
natural conditions right so these are
wild animals when we think about wild
animals we're not talking about pets
right or animals that are in zoos pets
are animals that we keep in our homes
they are not wild animals your dog is
not wild if you go to the zoo and see a
bear in a cage it's not in the wild
right it's in a zoo it's in captivity
but in the wild means living or growing
in natural conditions no man-made
surroundings right they're not living in
homes they're not living in zoos they're
not living in cages they're out in
nature in natural conditions they are
out in nature out in nature ok so that
is the quality or the essence of being
wild wild animals ok spiny is an
adjective that we can talk about animals
this is what animals this is another
type of adaptation and this is a very
cute little animal here isn't it this is
a pufferfish and if you go scuba diving
you can see them they're very there look
really cute they've got these really big
eyes and a small mouth right there very
cute little guys usually they don't look
like
this usually they look like a fish but
they're kind of fat fish but if they get
scared they blow up and all these little
spines that are normally flat on their
bodies they start to stick up if you
touch that out right it's like touching
a bunch of pins and needles and that is
very important spiny so we can say it's
spiny it's very it's it's hard to touch
it right it's like you're touching pins
and needles
spiny means having sharp points like
needles so that's also that's obviously
a very good adaptation for this fish
this fish will protect itself by that
nobody wants to touch this fish because
it could hurt right let's take a look at
a video of this fish here now this is a
different type of fish this is called a
lionfish and this is a very poisonous
fish you do not want to touch this fish
you see it has many spines just like the
puffer fish it has many spines sticking
up from its body it doesn't blow itself
up these spines are always there if you
accidentally touch this fish you will
get some poison in your skin and it will
it won't kill you but it will hurt a lot
and it will really really ruin your
vacation you do not want to get near
these fish and these fish are very
slow-moving so you got to be careful of
these fish okay now we have shape
animals when they adapt to their wild
surroundings they will have different
shapes and we can see a lot of different
shapes even if we just look at shells
right some type of animals in the in the
ocean will use shells for their body to
protect them and they have lots of
different shapes according to what their
needs are shape is the outer form of
something the outer form so we have a
starship look a star fish we have a
starfish that looks like a star shape we
have a circular cone our circular shells
of course some hermit crabs will live in
there of course
snails will live in there first then a
hermit crab will come by and take that
as its home so we have lots of different
shapes for different types of animals
that live in the ocean but also all
types of animals have different shapes
okay when we talk about animals we can
classify animals we can separate the
animals into different groups by what do
they eat so we can separate them we can
put animals in one group or the other we
can classify them one group is
herbivores herbivores now that's a long
word right maybe a little difficult to
pronounce herbivores herbivores ok
herbivores only eat plants so what do
they eat herbivores only eat plants we
can see the horse here the horses eating
plants now look at this picture wow he's
got big flat teeth right so herbivores
have flat teeth and this guy looks like
he brushed his teeth right I'm just
kidding
horses don't brush their teeth right but
this horse has naturally white teeth you
can see that they're big and they are
flat they're flat so that the animal can
crush the plants and get the juices from
the plants because you have to have
strong teeth and flat teeth if you only
eat plants you have to be able to crush
those plants very well so what are types
of herbivores horses as we can see here
squirrels and rabbits etc those types of
animals are herbivores they're not at
the top of the food chain and now at the
bottom they're in the middle of the food
chain let's take a look at a video of a
horse Wow of a horse and he's talking
isn't he looks like he's talking but you
see the teeth there the teeth are flat
oh yeah it was a good picture of here we
can see the flat teeth there and of
course the horse needs to have strong
flat teeth in order to be able to eat
plants it was very strange it looked
like that horse was talking or angry at
somebody ok let's move on now what is
the other type of animal we've talked
about herb of
the other type of animal of course is
carnivore before I said herbivores are
not at the top of the food chain they're
in the middle what eats herbivores
carnivores will eat herbivores because
carnivores eat other animals they eat
meat okay so as opposed to herbivores
which have very flat teeth you can see
wow look at this lion right he has very
sharp teeth
so these teeth are very sharp and you
see their matching on the top and the
bottom they have a sharp tooth here and
here and also on the bottom we call
these teeth these sharp teeth especially
these long sharp ones those are called
fangs F n G s so if an animal has fangs
it has sharp pointy teeth that it uses
to catch and to bite and to kill other
animals so that it eats other animals
that's what carnivores have what are
types of carnivores lions tigers sharks
etc of course these types of animals can
be dangerous right let's take a look at
a video here now of course this is a
video of a very majestic very impressive
looking lion in the wild look at his
teeth Thunder isn't Wow look at that you
saw his teeth look at his fangs they're
very sharp you have to be very careful
of an animal like this because it could
be dangerous right they eat other
animals that's what they do so they
could eat you
be very careful obviously if you're
around big animals like this like lions
and bears and of course if you're under
water watch out for sharks as well
sharks you know usually will avoid you
but you have to be careful what you have
in your hands okay let's move on okay
here let's move on to this exercise
match each word with its definition so
we have the words here wild spiny
adaptation one more time adaptation
herbivore one more time herbivore
camouflage
camouflage carnivore carnivore
okay these are long words so we need to
practice the pronunciation a little bit
let's look at the definitions number one
having sharp points like needles
remember the picture of the fish we saw
before the fish had very sharp points
coming off of its body like needles
so we could say that that fish is what
we're looking for an adjective we're
looking of course for spiny it has met
it has it's a very spiny fish it has a
lot of sharp points on its body you have
to be careful don't touch it don't stick
yourself on one of those spines number
two an animal that only eats plants
remember this is an important part of
the lecture we're talking about two
kinds of animals we can classify animals
one type of animal that only eats plants
it's a little hard to pronounce do you
remember it's an herbivore herbivore a
good way to remember that is an herb is
a type of plant right so an herb it's an
herbivore of course it doesn't just eat
herbs it eats all kinds of plants right
but an herb is a type of plant so that's
a good way to remember herbivore is an
animal that only eats plants next one
number three a body part that helps a
living thing meet its needs so remember
we talked about this word a little bit
we talked about an animal that changes
parts of its body in order to meet its
needs like the giraffe will grow a very
long neck what do we call that we call
that an adaptation how did that animal
change in order to meet its needs in the
wild it's an adaptation okay number four
an animal that only eats meat we saw
herbivore before is an animal that only
eats plants like an herb but what is an
animal that only eats meat well of
course that would be a carnivore
carnivore okay
number five the color or shape of an
animal that helps it to hide
remember when an animal wants to hide in
the environment like those white wolves
in the snowy background they can hide
very well because they have camouflage
the color or shape that protects it they
can hide in their environment that is
camouflage number six living or growing
in a natural habitat in a natural
habitats not in your home not in a zoo
they are living out in the wild so if
something lives out in the wild they are
living in the natural habitat nothing
man-made not in a home not in a zoo not
in a cage they are living in the wild ok
let's move on here ok let's take a look
at our chart here remember we were just
talking about camouflage camouflage is
when an animal changes its color or
shape changes it has an adaptation to
hide in its environment so it hat uses
color or shape to hide in where it lives
now some animals you know they do a
little bit maybe they change the color
of their fur from the winter to the
summer but some animals are really good
at this we can call them geniuses right
there the genius animals of camouflage
they're really really good at this let's
take a look at some examples insects of
course are very good at camouflage
insects are the masters at camouflage
here we have a peppered moth caterpillar
a caterpillar of course you know is a
little it's a worm like insect that
changes into a butterfly but before it's
a butterfly it can't move around a lot
it has to be able to hide in its
environment here we have a picture of a
plant we can see that the plant has a
couple of branches here's one branch
here's another branch here's a third
Bravo is that a third branch no that's
not a third branch that is the
caterpillar there's only two branches
and it looks like it looks like there's
a third branch but no that branch is
actually the caterpillar wow that
caterpillar changed its color to look
like the plant so that it looks like
another branch if we look at it right
our first thought is there's only three
branches
there's no caterpillar there that's how
good it is at hiding in the next picture
same caterpillar or similar caterpillar
but the color of the plant has changed
now the plant is green so the
caterpillar is green and again it looks
like a branch of the plant so the
caterpillars like a genius at being able
to hide inside the plant in the next
picture we have a flower mantis now I'm
sure you've probably seen a mantis
before they're very common in nature
these insects of course they have the
the triangular head with the two eyes
and they have the arms that are folded
like this that's why we call it a
usually a praying mantis because it
looks like it's praying but it has the
arms that are folded like this and it
uses those arms to catch other insects
there is a mantis in this picture can
you see it here we have a flower here
very colorful flower another flower here
and what's this this is the Mantis you
can see the body here right you can see
the body here you can also see the head
over here and this is a very big head
and you can see some arms or legs tucked
in there but it's very hard to see this
mantis it's a genius at hiding among
these flowers down here we have the gum
leaf grasshopper gum leaf because it
looks like a gum leaf the type of plants
can you see the grasshopper it's a
little hard to see the grasshoppers body
not only is it the same color as the
plant it's hiding on it even has the
same pattern it looks like a leaf
because of the pattern on its body it
looks like a gum leaf so this
caterpillar if it's in in on the ground
just looks like an ordinary leaf a bird
will pass right by won't even notice
that grasshopper and of course that's
what most insects are hiding from birds
and that's why insects are such good
masters or geniuses at camouflage
because birds are everywhere and birds
are always looking so insects have to be
good at camouflage we have one more
example and that is the hooded
grasshopper the hood and grasshopper a
hood of course is something that you put
over your head right to protect you from
the rain or cold can you see the hooded
grasshopper here we see leaves of the of
the plant here and wait a minute what is
this this looks like a leg
there's another leg here oh and this
looks like an eye right and look at that
that's the hood right there that hood is
so big and it's got yellow on the edge
it looks like a leaf of the plant so
this hooded grasshopper is using
camouflage to look like a leaf of the
plant so it's very difficult to see it
right away
when we look at this plant so as I said
before insects are masters at camouflage
let's take a look at a video of an
insect and as we can see this insect
here looks like a another example of a
mantis look at him he's kind of an
interesting looking character he looks
like an alien almost he's got the two
eyes two big eyes on either side he's
got something sticking out of his head
look at the back that's very interesting
look at the pattern on the back of this
insect it kind of looks like the shape
of the leaves that it's the of the plant
that it's on so this insect blends in to
the plant it uses camouflage to hide
itself again it's hiding itself from
birds who want to eat this insect so
it's using camouflage to do that okay
let's take a look at the at this chart
here we have two pictures remember we
were classifying animals into two main
groups by what they eat okay so here we
have a picture of a lion remember a lion
has sharp pointed T
remember I told you that those are fangs
sharp pointed teeth what does this
animal eat this animal eats meat so it
is called a carnivore this animal eats
other animals over here on our second
picture we have a zebra right look at
its teeth the teeth are are big and
they're flat they're flat teeth they're
good for eating plants right so this
animal eats plants therefore it is an
herbivore herbivore okay now let's move
on we have a couple of more animals what
are they
it's got a big head small body no it's
just the way the picture is right okay
this is a picture of a cow right very
funny looking cow got horns ears and of
course we can see the teeth a little bit
here the teeth again are flat right
they're very flat but they're thick
they're strong teeth they're flat what
does this animal eat of course this
animal eats plants it is an herbivore
herbivore finally over here whoa look at
this guy he looks dangerous
he looks also fat he's been eating a lot
right what has he been eating
if we take a look at the teeth here
there's lots and lots of teeth lots and
lots of sharp pointy teeth so this
animal eats other animals and it looks
like it just ate another animal it's
pretty fat okay so what kind of animal
is this it's a carnivore okay so again
these are our two types of animals that
we can classify carnivore or herbivore
okay okay let's move on to our
true/false questions number one a
carnivore is an animal that only eats
plants is that true does a carnivore eat
plants
remember carnivore has sharp pointy
teeth sharp pointy teeth are not good
for eating plants a carnivore is not an
animal that only eats plants we have to
change that we would have to change that
to other animals that's one way we could
change it a carnivore is an animal that
only
other animals or other animals meat
right like chicken or beef okay a
carnivore is an animal that only eats
other animals or meat of course we could
change this we could say an herbivore is
an animal that only eats plants that
would also be correct but we have to
change it
so therefore this sentence is false
number two and adaptation helps a non
non living thing non means not living so
when we're talking about adaptations
right we're talking about how animals
change animals are living things right
so this is false if we got rid of
nonliving things then it would be true
and adaptation helps a living thing
that's true but we have to change the
sentence so it's false number three
camouflage helps an animal hide we saw a
lot of examples of camouflage especially
when we were talking about insects
insects are geniuses
at hiding in their environment they use
camouflage so sure camouflage helps an
animal hide that is true ok well let's
take a break here and we'll move on to
the reading in just a minute ok welcome
back we're going over the reading
section now and in this reading section
what is their subject we're talking
about adaptations for survival so that's
in there first or topic sentence of the
reading passage plants and animals have
adaptations that help them survive so
adaptations help them survive it also
helps them meet their needs so this
paragraph is going to be about how
animals change or change according to
their environment so that they can
survive an adaptation is a body part or
behavior that helps a living thing meet
its need whether that need is to get
food whether that need is to be able to
sneak up on other animals or to protect
itself from other animals there's many
types of
adaptations for example some animals
have spikes right spikes all around
their body which are very spiny so that
they protect themselves from enemies
okay so this is one adaptation they have
spikes they grow spikes spike is an
adaptation the spikes
they are very spiny right there they'll
like needles if you touch that out it
hurts right so you got to be careful
what do they do they protect they
protect the animals they protect
themselves from enemies so if a shark
comes along the shark does not want to
eat this pufferfish because that will
hurt oh it's like having a ball of
needles you don't want to eat that right
so they will protect themselves by
adapting their bodies growing spikes
they are spiny so that other animals
don't want to eat them okay wild animals
have adaptations of course all animals
have adaptations but wild animals
especially need their adaptations
because they're living in the wild only
they can take care of themselves
carnivores like tigers have sharp teeth
sharp teeth is an adaptation that
carnivores use that helps them eat meat
right because if they have flat teeth
it's very difficult to tear the meat off
of another animal with flat teeth sharp
teeth they can they're able to do that
so unlike carnivores not like carnivores
on the opposite side herbivores have
flat teeth for eating plants so as we
saw in the pictures before herbivores
have flat teeth to eat plants so when we
classify the animals right we have
carnivores and herbivores carnivores
have adaptations sharp teeth that's
their adaptation so that they can meet
their needs
herbivores their abdication is flat
teeth flat teeth allows them to eat
so two different types of animals two
different styles of adaptations that's
how they've changed their bodies to meet
their needs camouflage is another
adaptation okay
so it's another adaptation camouflage is
the color or shape right there's a
couple of different ways we saw how some
insects especially will change their
shape or use their shape to look like
the branches of a tree or to look like
the leaves the shape of the leaves or to
look like a flower
so they'll also use shape of an animal
that makes it blend in I taught you this
word before blend in with its
environment so if something blends in
with the environment it is using
camouflage camouflage is an adaptation a
chameleon a chameleon is a type of
lizard right a chameleons really amazing
it can change the colour of its body so
that it cannot be seen easily and it can
change its body color in in an instant
right as it moves it can change the
color of its body let's take a look at a
video this is a chameleon now it looks
like a very scary looking lizard right
very interesting looking lizard he's got
a big mouth here right now he's green
because he's in a tree that has green
leaves okay now this is a chameleon you
can almost see he's changing from green
to yellow over here right look at how
the color of his skin or his body
changes and look at the different colors
here here we have dark green here we
have more of a yellowish green and he
can change these colors and look at that
that leaves these horns on the on the
front of the lizard very interesting
looking critter very interesting looking
creature but this lizard can actually
change the color of its skin as it moves
around he didn't move that much but if
he moved around and moved to a different
environment he can change the color of
his skin to match his surroundings and
he's using camouflage
obviously to do that okay let's look at
our chart here
our chart is looking at the reading
skill compare and contrast so we're
comparing things how are they the same
contrast how are they different and our
topic of course is adaptation we're
talking about how adaptation is alike
how adaptation is different our words
down here we need to fill in these
blanks with these words we have a lot of
blanks our words are spiny survive
herbivores herbivores carnivores
carnivores shape and needs so let's take
a look at this chart adaptation how is
that diet ation how is adaptation alike
for all animals
well adaptation helps living things to
beep and meet their beep so it helps
living things to what to dowhat down
here probably survive survive is our
correct answer survive is a verb they
need to survive they need to continue
living adaptations help animals to
continue living to survive and meet
their you meet what what do you meet you
meet one's needs so meet their needs
it helps animals meet their needs ok how
are adaptation different how is
adaptation different different animals
use adaptation in different ways some
living things have beep spikes what kind
of spikes were looking for an adjective
right so we're looking for a word like
spiny
some living things have spiny spikes on
their body right
spiny if you touch them it's like you're
touching a needle out be careful right
spiny spikes here some animals have
special color or beep that help them
hide remember when we talked about
camouflage we talked about color and we
also talked about another way that
animals use camouflage color and shape
right color and shape that help them to
hide in nature so it's not just color
it's also the shape of their bodies for
example the caterpillars their shape
looks like a twig or a branch of the
plant that they are on now here we have
a blank have sharp teeth so we're
looking for some kind of animal that has
sharp teeth what kind of animal has
sharp teeth
if you chose carnivores you would be
correct
remember carnivores their adaptation is
sharp teeth so that they can eat other
animals now another type of animal has
flat teeth they have flat teeth so that
they can eat plants what kind of animal
eats only plants that would be
herbivores herbivores so these are
different animals different types of
animals different types of adaptation
some animals have spiked spiny spikes
not all animals right but some some
animals have color or shape to hide
themselves not all animals but some
that's how they're different and of
course the big difference between the
two types of animals some animals eat
other animals some animals only eat
plants so that's another big difference
that's how they are different ok let's
go over the reading comprehension
questions here here we have the first
question
a chameleon can change what to help it
hide what can it change to help it hide
we have here shape color or spikes
remember the chameleon was that
strange-looking lizard we saw in the
video it had horns on its head those
horns by the way you could say are like
spikes can it change its horns or its
spikes no those horns stay the same
Sosa's not right can it change its shape
can a chameleon change the shape of its
body
no the chameleon can't change the shape
of its body but what the chameleon can
do is change its color remember we saw
part of it was green part of it was
yellow so the chameleon can change the
color of its
in to hide depending on where it is okay
so let's move on to number two
herbivores herbivores remember animals
that eat plants they have beep for
eating plants right what do they have
remember all the answers show teeth
teeth teeth teeth so we're looking for
what type of teeth are they do they have
flat teeth
spiny teeth or sharp teeth by the way
it's interesting to note that spiny and
sharp mean the same thing
spiny and sharp right the the fish that
we saw has many spikes on it they're
very spiny they're very sharp if you
touch them out it's like touching a
needle so spiny and sharp are really
synonymous they are the same meaning do
urban voters have sharp or spiny teeth
no they don't what they have are flat
teeth they have flat teeth flat is the
opposite of sharp or spiny so herbivores
have flat teeth for eating plants ok
moving on to number three how can an
adaptation help an animal right we
talked about how adaptations help
animals so we have three choices here a
by helping it eat and live B by changing
its environment C by protecting it from
camouflage only one of these answers
really makes sense a by helping it eat
and live so to meet its needs right
adaptations help animals meet their
needs
what does an animal need it needs to eat
and it needs to live right the other
choice is changing its environment can
an animal change its environment No
the environment is not a choice right
the animal has to live in the
environment and an adaptation doesn't
help the animal change that environment
it has to live in that environment see
by protecting it from camouflage your
animals are not afraid of camouflage
right camouflage helps animals protect
from other animals they're not protected
from camouflage that's silly
the only one choice that makes sense is
a moving it on to number 4 herbivores do
not eat meat right they only eat plants
right and what's the rest of the
sentence so herbivores do not eat meat
and a carnivores only eat tigers and
rabbits that sounds a little strange eat
Tigers type carnivores eat Tigers no
Tigers are at the top of the food chain
nothing eats Tigers so a is not correct
what about B and chameleons can change a
plant's color so chameleons can change
the color of the plants no chameleons
change their own color to blend in with
the plants so B is not correct C must be
your answer
herbivores do not eat meat and
carnivores do not eat plants sounds
right right now we're using the negative
right herbivores eat plants they do not
they do not not eat meat and carnivores
do not eat plants it's the other way
around
herbivores eat plants carnivores eat
meat so we can also use negative to show
this difference between the two animals
okay let's move on to our chart here
remember we're classifying animals into
two main groups by what do they eat over
here we have a picture of a horse
animals like horses have flat teeth
because they only eat plants examples
horse squirrel and rabbit what
classification is this animal what
classification do we put it in this
animal is an herbivore these animals are
herbivores down here we have a picture
of a lion lions and other animals like
this have sharp pointed teeth right they
have sharp teeth they eat other animals
examples lion tiger shark these animals
are at the top of the food chain what do
we call these animals
we call them carnivores so if you chose
that that is correct
okay well that wraps up this lesson it's
very interesting to look at animals how
they have changed to meet their needs we
call those adaptations and that's what
we have learned in this lesson
hope you've learned a lot we'll see you
next time take care
American Textbook Reading | Science 02
