# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1 | Lessons 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB)

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 15 | Matter and Its Changes](https://youtu.be/bshhIUYZq0Eâ€‹â€‹)
Matter can change in many ways.  You can tear, bend, or fold a solid.  The solid will look different, but it is still the same thing. However, matter can change into something else. When you burn wood, it changes into ash. You can mix things and make a mixture. A mixture is two or more kinds of matter put together. 

When you mix solids, they donâ€™t change and they are easy to separate. But some mixtures are hard to separate. When you put a solid into a liquid, some solids will dissolve and make a mixture. If you put sugar into hot water, it is hard to separate the sugar from the water. 


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody and welcome back to
American textbook reading
I'm your host Brian Stewart now we're
continuing on the subject of physical
science and we're talking a lot about
matter I hope you're learning a lot
especially it's kind of interesting
taking a look at matter and the various
things we can we can discover about
matter well in this chapter in this
lesson we're going to be talking about
matter and its changes how does matter
change so in this lesson you will
discover matter can change in many
different ways right we have different
methods for changing matter so we're
going to take a look at these different
ways and we're gonna look at the
vocabulary to describe how matter can
change you ready let's begin the first
way that we can change matter is we can
mix it together mix it up right as we
can see all this looks delicious are you
hungry
I'm getting hungry this looks like
cookie dough right we can take a little
bit of that and eat it right
very delicious okay so this looks like
cookie dough here we're gonna mix it
together right so we're mixing different
matter or different things and we're
gonna make something different out of it
so when we change matter one way to
change it is to mix it now mix means to
combine two or more things and then if
this is cookie dough it's not just two
things there's probably several or many
different things in it in fact we're
gonna watch a video of people who are
making cookie dough looks like they're
making cookie dough it could be a cake
but it looks like they're baking
something very similar I want to see how
they mix things together so in this case
we have a bowl right you need to have a
bowl to contain the matter that you're
gonna mix together and this part here
looks like that's the mixture that's
gonna turn around
and mix the ingredients so what by the
way they're going to put ingredients
into this bowl and the ingredients are
the matter that is going to be mixed
together so what are the ingredients
let's take a look first of all we see
some flour that is coming
to the bowl flour is a type of matter
right so that is one ingredient then we
see some butter so some butter is there
and then we see some chocolate powder
probably some sugar brown sugar
oh-ho this is syrup very sweet mmm
that's gonna make it taste good right
not too much syrup then we have an egg
you saw an egg go by really quick eggs
good whoa whoa laughs it's all being
mixed up whoa okay that mixture is
turning it around and mixing everything
up okay oh wow excuse me okay so it all
got mixed up right usually mixing up
especially with a electric blender it's
very fast right lots of energy right you
can also mix it by hand that takes a lot
more energy on your part okay so that's
to mix to mix many ingredients together
you change the matter right you change
the flour or the butter the syrup the
sugar you change that all and you make a
cookie or a cake out of it okay so after
we mix things together we can also use
another word to describe what the result
is the result is a mixture so if you
think about it a cookie is a mixture of
all those ingredients we just saw so as
a cake over here we have many different
candies and these candies are a mixture
of different colors and different types
of sugar probably to make one candy so a
mixture is two or more kinds of matter
put together there's a couple of
different ways that we can mix things
we're gonna look at one way in the video
but we're going to mix two or more kinds
of things together we're going to make a
mixture so we mix things together the
result is a mixture let's take a look
here we have a candy dish what's going
to go inside okay let's take a look oh
here comes the candy Wow
okay well try to catch those pieces of
candy take them and eat them right so we
have a lot of different types of candy
well there's the same type of candy but
what happened was they're different
colors right we're taking different
colors of candy we're mixing them
together what we have is a mixture of
different colors of candy right looks
like jellybeans okay so this is a
mixture of candy different colors we
have white we have purple
we have orange we have yellow we have
green it's a mixture of different colors
it's all the same type of candy but it's
a mixture of colors it's more attractive
this way and I'm gonna steal a piece
right and and eat it right it's a
mixture of different types of candy okay
different colors of candy now it's
interesting because you know with the
candy that we just saw right we have a
mixture of candy but it's also easy you
know with the different colors we could
separate those colors out now if you
separate something and here we have a
picture of nuts these are different
types of nuts and maybe some grains here
these are different types of nuts that
are separated they're not mixed up
they're all separate so you have one
type of nut here you have another type
this looks like a peanut right here your
peanuts here and another type of nut
here beans looks like and this looks
like dates or persimmon here these are
separate right they're not this they're
not mixed up together they're separate
they're kept by themselves so separate
means separate means to keep things
apart from each other separate is a verb
to keep things apart from each other
don't mix them okay it's the opposite of
mixing separate is the opposite of
mixing now another way that you can mix
things together right one way to mix
things together is to dissolve the
things dissolve that's an interesting
word dissolve to dissolve something that
means to put something into a liquid and
make it seem to disappear so if you put
something into a liquid it seems to
disappear here's a pill that's going
down and it's fizzing it'll it'll
disappear it will the liquid will absorb
it if you put sugar into iced tea and
mix it up the sugar will dissolve in the
liquid and the sugar will disappear you
won't see it it's still there you just
can't see it that's why it seems to
disappear it's still there we just can't
see it let's look at an example of this
here we have a glass of water right the
liquid is water what we're going to see
is some is going to put too
in there plop plop by the way there's an
old commercial about this these pills
are probably pills to help if you have
an upset stomach or your stomach is is
up I all right you put these two pills
in there and they dissolve they fizz
fizz and then you have relief so the
song is plop plop fizz fizz oh what a
relief it is okay
that's an old commercial right so you
put them to the to in there they fizz
fzz right they fizz oops
fizz plop plop well the first one is of
course is plop plop is the sound that
the that the pills go into the water
plop plop fizz fizz and they dissolve
right so then when the pills are gone
you drink the liquid odds are relief to
your stomach so a lot of medicine is
this way but you're dissolving the
medicine in the liquid another way to
change matter is to tear it right
especially when we have something like
paper or fabric you can tear that right
terror means to separate or be separated
by force okay so things that are soft we
talked about in previous lesson things
that are soft things that are soft can
be you can tear them they can be torn
can be torn so tear changes to torn when
you're talking about something that has
that you you've torn it you you tear it
it's in the past it's now you it is torn
it is torn my shirt is torn my skin oh
that's terrible if you if you injure
yourself my skin is torn so you can tear
soft things that means to separate or be
separated by force so be careful don't
don't tear your elbows or your knees
right okay let's move on a burn is
another way to change matter it's
another way that matter changes burn of
course if you burn something you need
fire burn means to destroy with fire
burn is a destructive force it destroys
it doesn't
it destroys something it changes
something into something else but burn
when you burn something it's not usually
you're not creating anything really
constructive you're usually destroying
something so burn means to destroy with
fire so after we burn something if you
burn something what is the result
a lot of things can burn you can burn
paper you can burn wood you can burn
hair right be careful with fire fire
will destroy many things but after the
fire is gone what's left
ash after burning ash and we can see the
ash in the in the glass dish here this
is ash it's all black and it's gray
right that is ash ash is the material
that is left after something is burned
so if you burn a piece of paper like
this it changes color it changes shape
it changes the composition of the paper
changes to a black very thin very
delicate substance that's really no use
to anybody you can't really use ash okay
that is ash now another way that you can
change matter is that you can fold it
right especially if you like to make
objects from paper like your and you use
origami right origami you will fold
paper to make an object like this fold
to Bend so that one part covers the
other part is very common using with
paper but you can also fold skin you can
fold lots of different material as long
as it's soft remember if it's soft you
can fold it when you put your shirts
away you fold your shirts up put them
into your drawer okay so two fold is
another way to change matter to bend so
that one part covers the other part now
how can you change matter we've talked a
lot about a lot of different ways that
you can change matter
one way that we that we have what we've
talked about some of these but one new
way is to bend something and actually we
talked about that in previous lesson
remember when we said something is soft
you can bend it right to bend if you see
this metal here
metal isn't soft so you have to hit user
really large a lot of force a lot of
energy to bend this metal but some metal
workers will bend the metal to make nice
designs and that's to bend it okay
you're changing the shape of something
it's straight before you bend it now it
is curved and that is to bend we talked
about mix when you mix something
especially these cross looks like
they're having fun mixing something that
they're probably baking I don't know
what they're baking maybe a cake there
but they're mixing the ingredients in a
bowl they're mixing them together so
they're mixing things together this boy
here looks like he's making a paper
airplane or it could be making a kite
but he's cutting paper he's cutting it
so when you cut something it's kind of
like tear but a cut is more precise it's
more controlled tear is not so
controlled cut and tear are very similar
but cut is when you use scissors and you
cut something very nicely and very
cleanly okay over here we have burned we
talked about burn when you burn
something with fire use fire destroys it
so we can see this paper is being
destroyed by fire and what's left is ash
we actually have a video for that let's
take a look at the video here we have
like wrapping paper and some paper down
here and we can see the fire on the top
let's take a look at the video all you
can see how it changes very quickly see
how the paper or the wrapping paper is
being turned into ash along the sides
here where the fire is destroying the
original material the original matter
and as you see that the fire progresses
as the fire moves from one side to the
other we can see how it spreads and it
turns the bright color yellow into a
black gray color which is the ash so we
have the ash here and you know it's too
bad that's a shame that we're burning
this stuff because we have very colorful
things but this is being destroyed this
material is being destroyed and turning
into ash through fire let's move on come
back here another way that we can change
matter is to fold things and you can see
you
make many fun shapes if you fold paper
together right we can fold many things
together things that are soft so this is
another way that we can change matter
finally up here we have tear remember I
talked about tear and cut they're very
similar but when you tear something
you're not using scissors you're using
force to pull two things apart in this
case somebody's tearing a piece of
cardboard off if you cut something it's
more precise it's more exact it's more
controlled and cleaner than tearing
something both achieve the same result
but tear is a little Messier it's a
little dirtier than cutting something
okay let's go over these words here
we're going to have a little exercise
see how well you can remember the words
that we just covered we have the words
here tear dissolve mix separate mixture
and burn and these are the definitions
so we're gonna match these words to
their definition let's start with number
1 - destroy with fire we just saw the
video of that right when something is
destroyed by fire we call that process
to burn right to burn and of course
after something burns what's left
ash right so if you destroy something
with fire you are burning it to burn
something okay number two two or more
kinds of matter put together now we have
two similar words here we got to be
careful one is a noun and one is a verb
so we're looking for the noun here two
or more kinds of matter put together so
if we have two different types of nuts
or three different types of nuts and we
put them all together right what do we
have as a result we have a mixture
mixture is a noun so two or more kinds
of things a matter that are put together
we call that a mixture it's a mixture
remember I gave you the example of a
cookie a cookie is a mixture of two or
more kinds of matter put together eggs
chocolate chips flour sugar many
different kinds of matter put together
we have a mixture a cookie is a mixture
so a mixture is things that we put
together number three to put something
into a liquid and may
it seemed to disappear remember we
talked about the medicine we saw the
video of the medicine plop plop fizz
fizz right it dissolved into the water
it seemed to disappear it's still there
right it's still in the water let it
seemed to disappear it dissolved into
the water kind of spread out in the
water and that of course is to dissolve
okay let's move on to number four number
four to keep things apart from each
other so let's say for example we have
the nuts you know you have different
kind of nuts you have peanuts
you have almonds you have cashew nuts
but you don't want to mix them together
you don't want a mixture you want to
keep them apart you want to separate
those so separate to keep things apart
from each other you want to separate
them number five we have separate again
to separate or be separated by force
remember that that's that action that
you that you separate two things by
force something soft
the rimmer it's very similar to cut but
cut is very controlled and clean this
word is very dirty do you remember the
word if you chose tear that's correct
tear something to separate two things by
force finally 6 to combine we're looking
for a verb here because to combine
that's a verb two or more things so we
have two or more things like peanuts
almonds cashew nuts we want to combine
them together what are we doing we are
mixing them to mix two or more things
together after we mix things that's the
verb we combine them together that's to
mix after that we have the noun that is
a mixture so the difference between mix
and mixture okay so these are the words
and these are the definitions this is
how we will define these words these are
words we just studied let's move on we
have a nice chart here we have kinds of
mixtures now this is an interesting
point here right because we've talked
about mixing candies or nuts this would
be this type of a mixture here and we
also talked about dissolving pills
medicine or sugar something in water now
let's take a look at the 2d
Frank kinds there's actually two
different kinds of mixtures here and
they're important in an interesting way
because sometimes when you mix things
together like in this case buttons it's
easy to pick them apart the things in
the mixture do not change for example if
you have all these buttons here you mix
them together you have a mixture of
different buttons but you can go in
there very easily and pick out the green
buttons the big buttons the small
buttons you can pick out the buttons
with two holes or the buttons with three
holes you can separate those right
that's easy
okay let's take a look at a video of
that the things the things don't change
that's the other point if you take them
apart you separate there's still buttons
they don't change let's take a look at a
video of that here we have of course all
of these buttons like we're talking
about now somebody's going through and
they're picking out the different colors
maybe the buttons that have different
number of holes some buttons have two
some buttons have three some buttons
have four holes you can pick them out
you can separate them that's easy to do
and they don't change their shape
however sometimes when you mix things
together it is hard to separate them
right some things will dissolve in the
liquid and you can't separate it you
can't pick them out okay let's take a
look at a video of that process now oh
we have a scientist who's working in a
lab she's gonna mix two things together
let's watch
she has a yellow liquid she has a light
blue liquid she's mixing them together
okay this is our mixer it turns green
very interesting now imagine she had
yellow and blue at the beginning now she
has a green liquid she's mixing it up
together to make sure it's all mixed now
can she go back in there and take out
the yellow and take out the blue no
she's not gonna be able to do that right
it's all one liquid now there's no way
she's gonna be able to take out the blue
liquid and and the yellow she can't
separate the original material and
that's the difference some materials
when you mix them together you can
separate them they don't really change
right and you can they don't change
their form but sometimes
when you mix things together you can't
pick them up again return to the cookie
example can you pick out the flour from
the cookie the sugar no way it's very
difficult to do that so sometimes you
can after you mix things together you
can pick them apart but sometimes you
can't they are mixed together and you
can't separate them okay let's take a
look at a picture here or a picture
matching exercise what we're going to do
here is take a look at the different
pictures we're going to choose the name
of the action what is the action being
done in each picture okay what is the
action being done in each picture how do
we change matter number one we're taking
a look at a picture here we see a young
girl here she has a piece of paper in
her hand and one hand is moving away
from the other hand so she's separating
that paper by force do you remember the
action there is she burning it I hope
not she should not be playing with fire
right she's not burning it is she
tearing it absolutely that's what she's
doing she's tearing the paper she is
tearing the paper apart move on to
number two this person is taking a piece
of paper and they are making a paper
airplane that's fun to do isn't it
when you make a paper airplane what are
you doing to the paper you are either
mixing the paper or folding the paper if
we look at mix remember mix means to
take two or more things and mix them
together but that's not happening here
there's only one material it's paper and
we're not adding anything to it we're
just changing the shape of the of the
one item what we're doing is we're
folding it we're folding it together
we're changing the shape by folding the
material over over itself to cover one
part of it with itself so to fold
finally we have two kids here they look
hungry right they look like they're
going to enjoy cookies afterwards looks
like chocolate chips are being put into
a bowl there what are they doing
are they mixing these materials together
or are they bending bends remember
things too means to make something
straight into a curved shape but
using two or more ingredients and
they're combining them and that of
course is the definition of mix they are
mixing these ingredients to make cookies
and I'm getting hungry
yeah looks like good chocolate-chip
cookies I hope they will have good
chocolate chip cookies in about 30
minutes I hope that they do it well it
looks like a little bit messy but I'm
sure they'll they'll they'll be able to
cook their cookies well okay let's move
on to our last one here true and false
questions let's take a look at these
sentence this is if that's true we
Circle T if it's false we Circle F
number one separate means two so we're
looking for the definition of separate
what does separate mean it means to
destroy with fire is that correct that's
not correct remember if we have the word
burn burn is our one thing that we do
here if we put burn that would be true
but it's not burned it's separate if
it's burn means to destroy with fire
that would be true but it's separate so
it's false right okay so number two a
mixture is two or more different things
put together so we're looking at a noun
here a mixture is two or more things
different things put together what do
you have as a result that is a noun it
is a mixture and that is correct right
because a mixture is exactly that when
you take two or more different things
you put them together what's the result
a mixture number three when a solid a
solid thing dissolves
seems to disappear into a liquid the
solid and the liquid are easy to
separate so if you take a pill or some
sugar you put it in the water you
dissolve it then it's easy to pick out
the sugar of the pill right no it's not
right it's not easy it says easy it's
not easy so this is false if it said not
easy to separate if we put naught then
that would be true but it's not easy to
separate you can't separate those two
things very difficult okay what we're
going to do is we're going to take a
short break now then we're going to come
back and take a look at the reading
section see you soon okay welcome back
everybody
we're
going over the reading section for
lesson 15 how matter changes matter and
its changes so we're starting off with a
topic sentence matter can change matter
can change in many ways it's a good
topic sentence basically what we're
saying is that there are many different
ways you can change matter so we're
gonna take a look at those right first
of all we see you can tear bend or fold
a solid so these are three different
ways that you can actually change matter
you can tear it you can bend it or you
can fold it right if it's a solid right
if it's a liquid you can't tear liquid
you can't bend liquid right you can't
fold a liquid that would be very very
difficult to do but for solids that's an
important point a solid you can do these
things to it the solid will look
different
sure it'll look straight it'll look
different because you tear it it changes
the shape if you bend it changes shape
you fold it again it has a different
shape but it's still the same thing
isn't it if you fold a piece of paper
it's still a piece of paper it looks
different but it's still a piece of
paper
however matter can change into something
else so there are cases where matter can
change into something else let's take a
look at some examples well first of all
when you burn wood we talked about that
when you burn wood remember it's kind of
a destructive process it changes into
ash so when you burn wood wood will
change into ash okay so it changes the
nature of the matter so when you burn
wood it changes into ash another way
that's one way another way second way
you can mix things and then you have a
mixture and that's a different type of
matter right a mixture is two or more
kinds of matter put together so
especially when you mix things that
cannot be separated you come up with a
new type of matter you mix many
different ingredients and you make a
cake a new type of matter or a cookie
it's a new type of matter so there's two
ways that this passage this paragraph is
talking about that
can mix things and that they change
their form that the matter changes okay
when you mix solids remember there's two
different ways also when you mix
different things you have different
results in one result when you mix
solids they don't change it's easy to
separate them right we took a look at
the the picture the solids here I mean
you could you could separate these these
might be a little more difficult to
separate but you could do it but if you
had a mixture for example of lots of
different nuts together in one Bowl you
could separate them right they don't
change but some mixtures are hard to
separate obviously if you have medicine
pills that dissolve in water you can't
separate them they're together right in
fact it's very you can't even see how to
separate them there they're blended
together so well that it's very hard to
determine how they are different they
seem to be the same thing now okay when
you put a solid into a liquid some
solids not all solids right if you put a
rock in there a glass of water you can
still separate it it doesn't dissolve
but some solids will dissolve okay so if
it dissolves it breaks down its
structure its shape it kind of seems to
disappear it will make a mixture right
then you have a mixture that you cannot
separate right so it will dissolve if
you put sugar into hot water afterwards
it's very hard it's almost impossible to
separate the sugar from the water I mean
you could do it but it would be very
difficult to do if you put your into hot
water it's so hard to separate the sugar
from the water so after this is
dissolved you can't separate them they
are actually it's actually a new type of
matter right it's sweet water not just
water it's sweet water okay so let's
talk about the reading skill main idea
in detail so we talked about the main
idea what was the topic sentence matter
can change in many ways so basically
this passage was talking about many
different ways that matter can change we
can see the details that support this
main idea
our first detail you can cut tear-bend
or
beep a solid the solid is still the beep
so of course we have many blanks here we
need to fill in the blanks with these
words mix dissolve fold same coming back
here starting off we can cut we can tear
we can bend or we can do something else
so what's another method that we can use
to change a solid you can cut it you can
tear it you can bend it what else can
you do it can you mix it can you
dissolve it can you fold it can you do
the same well you can do a couple of
things we have to continue reading the
solid is still the beep okay so we have
to combine these two actually we can't
just go on the first sentence because
you can mix a solid you can dissolve a
solid you can fold a solid we're not
sure which one goes in here we need to
read the second sentence the second
sentence is a solid is still the mix
dissolve fold same same is the only word
that makes sense here so if you can cut
tear bend or if you fold a solid it
don't change it remember I use the
example of paper you fold a piece of
paper it's still a piece of paper the
solid is still the same so actually we
have to use both of these blanks in
connection with each other
we can't just fill in this blank without
looking at this blank we have to look at
them both together to figure out which
words go in there because you can cut
tear a bend or dissolve a solid yes you
can't do that but it's not the same if
you do that right so that's why we have
to look at these two sentences at the
same time to figure out what is the
correct answer okay so let's move on to
see when you beep solids they are easy
to separate okay when you do something
with solids you can still separate them
well if you put mix then that's correct
when you mix solids right you take
peanuts and almonds and cashew nuts you
mix them together they're all solids you
mix them together but it's easy to
separate them when you take different
colored candies and you mix them
together you can still separate them
it's easy to separate those finally some
solids will be in liquids so if you take
a solid you mix it with a liquid some
not all but some solids will
do what they will of course they will
dissolve they will become part of that
liquid right in the solution and of
course you won't be able to separate
those remember the key point here is
some not all remember if you put a rock
in a glass of water it doesn't dissolve
right you can still separate so some
solids like sugar medicine things like
that they will dissolve in liquids okay
let's move on let's do some reading
comprehension questions our first
sentence here what is the matter left
what is the thing left what is left over
when something has fully burned so if
you burn something what is left over
what does that thing change into okay do
we have mixture ash or sugar but it
would be great if it was sugar but I'm
sorry it's not sugar you know you'd go
around don't go around burning things by
the way be very careful to fire right
but if things change into sugar maybe
people would be burning things you know
burn a piece of paper get some sugar
yeah no that's not that's not true okay
so what is the matter left when
something is fully burned is in a
mixture or is it ash of course the right
answer is ash right when you burn
something it changes into something
black or gray that's called ash so
that's what's leftover number two when
you mix two solids together you take two
solids you mix them together the solids
what happened do they change color if
you take two different colored candies
and you mix them together are the colors
changed no they're not changed they're
still the same color they were
originally right a green piece of candy
will still be a green piece of candy if
you mix it with a red piece of candy
there's still they don't change color
will they dissolve well remember it's
two solids no liquid right if you mix
two solids together they don't dissolve
dissolve only happens if you have liquid
if there's liquid involved if there's
liquid involved then they will dissolve
but there's no liquid it's just two
solids that's not right C must be the
right answer when you mix two solids
together the solids do not change that's
correct they don't change and so it's
easy to separate them later
okay let's move on to number three if
you dissolve a solid in water right now
we're talking about something different
now we have a solid and we have a liquid
what happens it is a easy to separate
the two types of matter is it easy to
separate no because they dissolved right
that's the important part if they didn't
dissolve yeah you could separate them
but in this case they did they did
dissolve so is it it is easy no it is
not easy-a is not the right answer it's
not easy to separate them b it is hard
to separate the solid and the water well
actually that's the correct answer isn't
it because if it dissolves it kind of
becomes part of the water see it is hard
to burn and so a lot of ash is made that
doesn't make sense right that's that's
not correct
okay so C would be incorrect let's move
on to number four if you fold a piece of
paper it will a look different but it is
still paper B look different and no
longer be paper or C look the same as a
book okay okay well actually of course
if you probably got the right answer
right which is at a B or C if you chose
a you're correct you fold a piece of
paper it will look different but it's
still paper we talked about that several
times already you fold a piece of paper
change the shape looks different but hey
it's still paper didn't change into
something else just look at the other
two for practice B look different and no
longer be paper no it's still paper so B
is not correct see look the same as a
book no if you fold paper into a paper
airplane looks like an airplane doesn't
look like a book right so C is obviously
incorrect also the correct answer of
course is a okay well we've come to our
last slide of course do you remember
this slide we talked about this chart
before what we're looking at here is
different ways that we can change matter
so we've talked a lot a lot about
different ways that we can change things
how can we change them there are
different pictures showing the different
ways that we can change matter so let's
go over this do you remember it well
have a little bit of a test right first
I'll describe the picture you guys see
if you can
figure out what that process is called
or what that verb is called how we can
change matter let's start over here this
time we have somebody they have two
hands on a piece of cardboard and they
are pulling it apart right there using
force to separate a soft material do you
remember what that is called that of
course is to tear something to tear
something so this person is tearing
something over here on the top picture
we have a piece of metal right it the
shape of the metal has been changed it
used to be straight but now it is curved
right and it's made into a very artistic
shape here do you remember what the verb
is used to describe this action if you
chose Bend you would be correct there
bending bending a certain type of matter
into a different type of shape okay over
here we remember these two girls they
look like they're very busy they're
hungry so they're cooking something what
are they doing when they cook something
they take a lot of different ingredients
a lot of two or more different types of
material and they're combining it right
what are they doing they are mixing they
are mixing materials together over here
this boy seems to be very serious right
he's very he's doing his work very well
it looks like he's making something with
the piece of paper he's using scissors
what is he doing exactly he is cutting
to cut to cut the paper to separate the
pieces of paper but using scissors or
some other tool to make a very fine and
very exact very careful separation of
the two materials remember cut and tear
are very similar but tear is messy it's
it's not as clean as to cut okay but
they're very similar types of actions
over here we have a unique type of
action right this action actually
changes the nature or the material that
it affects we're using fire to change
this material when we use fire to change
it to destroy it what are we doing we
are burning it we're burned to burn
something means to change with fire and
then afterwards what the material
changes into
is ash okay our last way that we can
change matter is over here represented
in this picture this looks like paper
that has been changed right the verb
that we use of course is twofold
so we fold the paper to make many
different shapes and remember it's still
paper right when we fold something when
we fold our shirts at night and put them
away they're still shirts right and
we've just changed the shape of them
okay well that wraps it up for this
lesson we've covered matter and how to
change it we've talked a lot about
different ways that you can change
matter and what happens to matter when
it changes remember sometimes we we mix
solids sometimes we mix liquids
sometimes we mix solids and liquids
we've talked about you know sometimes
when you mix solids you can separate
them sometimes when you mix a solid into
a liquid and it dissolves you can't
separate them so lots of different
concepts and ideas we talked about how
to change matter I hope you've learned a
lot as usual and we'll see you guys next
time take care
