ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 05 
05. [Weather: https://youtu.be/jikceF3EElE]
==Weather==
Weather is the conditions of the air outside. There are many different kinds of weather. 
It can be warm, cool, hot, or cold. You can observe how weather changes. Sometimes there is snowy weather. On snowy days, the weather is very cold.
Sometimes there is sleet. Sleet is a mix of snow and rain. On rainy days,the weather is wet. The rainy season occurs between June and July in some places. On windy days, you have to be careful of the wind. It might blow you away! When the weather is cloudy, it could mean rain is coming. Sometimes the weather is beautiful and there is a lot of sun.This is called sunny weather. It is good for people to play outside.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart well in this lesson
we're talking about weather so we're on
lesson five we're talking about the
weather in this lesson you will discover
different types of weather so if you
think about the weather around you what
is the weather like today we can see
many different types of weather over
here the weather is very beautiful it's
clear over here this is horrible weather
right hopefully the weather is not like
this today it's very windy and rainy
over here again this is again very good
weather it's very nice very calm and
clear over here of course they're having
a lot of wind so there's a lot of
different things we can talk about in
the weather let's talk about different
types of weather the first one sorry I'm
going to do that again
it's not the first one let me start from
here because I missed this windy I said
it's very nice beautiful I shoulda said
it's windy okay hello everybody welcome
back to American textbook reading I'm
Brian Stewart in this lesson lesson five
we're talking about the weather
in this lesson you will discover
different types of weather so what's the
weather like today look out the window
there are many different types of
weather hopefully we have good weather
today and usually but as you can see in
these pictures there's different types
of weather this looks like good weather
but it looks like it's windy it's windy
here it's also windy here right this is
not good wind this is too strong but
it's also rainy this is horrible weather
I hope the weather is not like this
today I hope the weather is like this
beautiful weather very calm clear skies
sunny it's a sunny day okay so we're
gonna talk about different types of
weather in this lesson first though
what is weather weather is the
conditions of the air outside relating
to rain snow heat cold etc so that's an
important thing here we have rain snow
these two are talking about the
conditions what is happening outside
is it raining is it snowing is it windy
is it sunny
what's happening outside but weather
also talks about the temperature heat
and cold what is the temperature is it
hot outside is it warm outside is it
cold outside so we're talking about two
basic things about whether one is the
conditions the other is the temperature
so one thing we're talking about are
conditions for example rain snow sunny
conditions
we're also remember we're also talking
about the temperature temperature
temperature that's a long word
temperature as you can see this is a
weather forecaster and she's talking
about the different weather conditions
in different parts of the country looks
like this is Britain okay England okay
so this is weather and she's a weather
forecaster okay on the television you
can see what the weather is going to be
like by looking at the weather forecast
what is the weather for cast okay
what's the weather forecast what will
the weather be like tomorrow next week
in the future okay let's move on what
kinds of weather are there of course
there's sunny weather when we go to the
beach and we play in the ocean we hope
that it's sunny you have to be careful
with sunny weather though because sunny
means with a lot of sunlight but a lot
of sunlight means your skin can get
sunburned so be careful if you're out on
a sunny day wear some sunscreen let's
take a look at a video of a sunny day
now of course these two girls are having
a great time
in the ocean looks like we can see the
sunlight if you look at the waves you
can see all the light reflecting off
from the Sun this is a very sunny day
now these girls have to be careful right
they're getting wet they could get
sunburned they should put sunscreen on
their skin so that they don't get
sunburned on a very sunny day this girls
look like they're having a lot of fun
doesn't it looks like a good thing to do
go down the ocean and play in the water
hopefully if you do this you will do
this on a sunny day but again be careful
wear sunscreen protect yourself from the
Sun if you don't have to worry too much
about the Sun you know sometimes the sky
is covered with clouds and then we say
it's a cloudy day a cloudy cloudy means
to be covered with a lot of clouds so
this girl she's you know it's still a
nice day
right she there's still some Sun but
there's also some clouds in the sky so
it's a cloudy day by the way you also
have to be careful in a cloudy day not
getting too much Sun because you can
still get sunburned on a cloudy day so
be careful but anyway cloudy day is when
clouds are covering most or part of the
sky it's a cloudy day let's take a look
Wow in this video we can see a really
cloudy day and this is really a good
video for showing clouds see how the
clouds change as they're moving it's not
just a cloudy day it's also a windy day
because the wind is moving these clouds
very quickly and you can see that up in
the mountains when you're higher up you
get closer to the clouds you can see
them moving much more quickly and this
is a very good example of very dark
clouds moving across of course these
dark clouds have a lot of moisture in
them it looks like these are rain clouds
so probably it will rain if these if
there's a lot of these clouds and they
get together and they it could rain but
all of course here we can see clear
weather also so these clouds might just
be moving through so it's cloudy but
maybe if they move through
and there's no more clouds then it will
become clear but this is a very windy
and cloudy day okay I just talked about
windy we saw in the previous video how
the wind is moving the clouds very
quickly
windy of course means with a lot of wind
if there's a lot of wind there's a lot
of movements of the air the air is
moving very quickly from one part of the
earth to another part of the earth okay
and we have very windy days sometimes we
can use the wind for fun if we want to
fly a kite and that's a lot of fun these
girls are flying flat whoops flying a
kite okay so this here is a kite and on
a windy day you can fly a kite very well
let's take a look of us boy here okay
look at him look at how hard he's
pulling on that string because it's a
really really windy day that wind is
really pulling that kite looks like
somebody else we can't see that person
but they're down here somewhere
they have another kind of there but
that's really strong that boy was really
holding on to that rope because it's a
very very windy day we can say the wind
is very strong okay it's a very windy
day means there's strong winds okay now
another type of weather that you may
like maybe you don't like personally I
don't like rainy days right if it's
rainy it means there's a lot of rain
coming down having a lot of rain of
course on a rainy day
you should bring an umbrella with you
now we can talk again about light rain
there it's there is light rain
that's when just a little bit of rain is
coming down but when a lot of rain comes
down like in the summer time we say that
is heavy rain heavy rain another way you
can say it how is it raining a lot and
you can say it's not raining a lot
that's light rain or yes it is raining a
lot it's heavy
Rane okay let's take a look at a video
of rain this girl is walking along now
is it heavy rain or light rain what do
you think it looks to me like it's heavy
rain look at all the water and she of
course kids you know they like to walk
in the water moms don't like that but
you know she was walking through the
puddle of the of the rain all the rain
coming down there's so much rain it's
making a little stream it's a lot of
rain she doesn't seem to be bothered by
the rain right she's having fun most
kids have fun walking in the in the rain
in the puddles but this is heavy rain a
lot of rain is coming down
a lot of rain is coming down it's heavy
rain okay now in the winter time instead
of rain what comes down snow so in that
case we can say it is snowy it is snowy
snowy means to be covered with snow so
if we look at this hill
right and we look at the trees we can
say ah it's a snowy day it's a snowy day
that means that there's a lot of snow
out now of course we see this in winter
now snow can be fun these people are
having fun in the snow they're sledding
but snow can also be kind of a
bothersome thing especially if you're
driving but you don't have to worry
about that you guys are gonna go out and
you're gonna have fun in the snow right
here we have Wow a lot of snow is coming
down the kids happy right kids are happy
when it's snowing or raining they're not
too bothered by it
mom's like hey wait up for me right okay
there's a lot of snow coming down just
as with rain we can say light snow or
heavy snow in this case this is heavy
snow a lot of snow is coming down
it's really snowing okay so we can see
that there's a lot of snow here and it's
very heavy snow now we have another
situation in the weather we've talked
about rain we've talked about snow but
sometimes you'll notice that the
moisture the water that's coming down
from the sky it's not really rain it
seems to be you know a little bit more
solid than water but it's not really
snow
because it's a little wetter than snow
usually is it's kind of between snow and
rain
we call that sleet sleet is a mix of
rain and snow sleet I really don't like
sleet right because it's wet it's cold
and especially if you're driving or
you're walking it can be very bothersome
right you really have to bundle up you
have to bundle up that's a good
expression you have to bundle up means
you have to wear a lot of protective
clothes you have to bundle up it's two
words bundle up if especially if you go
out in the sleet where a lot of warm
clothes wear a hood bundle up because
sleet is a mix of rain and snow it's
cold and it's wet it's not good weather
okay when we talk about whether we can
use the word observe when we look at the
weather we are observing weather when
weather forecasters like that woman we
saw at the very beginning on television
she's forecasting the weather she's
giving us a weather forecast
those people observe the weather and
they try to figure out what is the
weather going to do observe means to see
or watch something or somebody this boy
right he's observing these two big
beetles I think they're really I think
they're really toys I don't think
beetles are that big okay
but he's observing these two insects
very carefully he's watching them very
carefully okay
so to observe means to watch something
especially when watch the weather we
observe the weather and we kind of guess
what is it going to do today is it going
to rain is it going to snow is it going
to be sunny we observe the weather and
we make a judgment about the weather
okay our next word last word is wet wet
if you take a look at this boy here he's
he's kind of he's kind of cute he's
soaking wet right he's in his pool here
there's water there he got water all
over his body
wet means to be covered with water he's
covered with water now there's a couple
of other things you see
this water is dripping off of his body
we can say he is dripping dripping wet
it's two words so drip means the water
is coming off drip drip drip the water
is he's got so much water on him he's
dripping wet now if you go out in the
rain you don't have an umbrella you will
get dripping wet you can also say
another thing you are soaking wet
soaking your mom gets angry if you come
home and you are soaking wet because you
are out in the rain or you are playing
in the snow and you got so wet you come
home and you're dripping water your mom
says oh you are soaking wet right get
your clothes off get into a hot bath
very quickly because it could it's not
good for your health to be dripping wet
or soaking wet if it's cold he's okay
it's warm out but if it's cold that's
not good for your health okay let's move
on to our chart as we have seen so far
in the vocabulary section there are many
types of weather we have cloudy weather
when the sky is partly cloud covered
with clouds or completely covered with
clouds so it's either one partly covered
or completely covered either way we say
it's cloudy
another type of weather is windy that's
when there's the wind is moving the air
is moving very strongly from one place
to another we call that wind it's very
windy outside it's very windy we also
have snowy in the wintertime when the
moisture comes from the sky and it's so
cold that it's freezing right it's not
rain it's not water anymore it's a like
a solid it's snow and it is snowy
outside of course when it's the water
comes down and it is a liquid we say
it's rainy remember we can say heavy
rain light rain heavy snow light snow so
we can talk about the degree how much
rain is coming down how much snow is
coming down
foggy is
word that we did not cover in the
vocabulary section but this describes
what happens imagine if you went inside
of a cloud right you cannot see very far
right because the moisture in the water
in the air around you is so thick that
it creates a fog and this is what fog is
fog are clouds that come down to the
ground to where we are and they cover
the ground and then we cannot see very
far so in some cities in some parts of
the world it's very foggy very often and
also if you go up into a mountain where
the clouds are covering the mountain
it's very foggy at the top of the
mountain the opposite of foggy of course
is sunny so when the Sun comes out also
in the morning you'll notice in the
morning time sometimes it's very foggy
on the ground the Sun comes up it warms
up and that moisture goes out of the air
and then it becomes sunny we see that in
Korea actually quite often don't we in
the morning we might be outside it's
very foggy but about nine o'clock ten
o'clock in the morning the Sun comes up
it gets warm and the fog goes away so
that's very interesting to look at foggy
as well okay let's take a look at our
matching words we're matching the words
to the definition we've talked about a
lot of different weather conditions now
we need to match those words with the
definition first number one with a lot
of wind of course this is very simple
because we just look at wind we're
looking for a word that means with a lot
of wind if we just add Y to the end of
that word of course we have windy with a
lot of wind
it means it's windy outside number two
to be covered with a lot of clouds if
something is covered with a lot of
clouds like the sky what do we say it is
very cloudy of course these are very
simple right we have clouds cloudy so
basically with the Y the Y is used to
show adjectives right this is the noun
form cloud is a noun cloudy is the
adjective
what is it like describing what is
something like wind is the noun form
windy is the adjective okay so a lot of
times we just put a y on the end of our
noun and then we come up with an
adjective and this is very common when
we talk about the weather
with a lot of sunlight so there's a lot
of Sun right Sun is our noun we add why
but for some we have a special thing we
have to give it another n and then we
put a Y and with a lot of sunlight it is
sunny okay so it's very interesting
pattern that we have going on here
especially this is true when we talk
about the weather
number-three having a lot of rain rain
is our noun what's our adjective that's
right
rainy okay number five the conditions of
the air outside relating to snow rain
snow heat cold etc remember we're
talking about the conditions right
what's happening and also what is the
temperature we're talking about all of
these together what's our word that that
covers all of these words in a group
that word of course we're talking about
weather when we talk about whether we're
talking about what the conditions are
what's happening outside we're also
talking about the temperature is it warm
hot cold freezing what is it number six
to be covered with snow again we follow
our pattern snow is our noun we want to
make it an adjective it is snow we okay
so snowy rainy windy cloudy these all
these words all follow the same pattern
and they're very common of course when
we talk about the weather let's take a
look at our chart now when we're talking
about weather
there's lots of different types of
weather right but there's also many
different types of wet weather we saw
that there are different types of
moisture that comes from the sky we
talked about different types let's talk
about them right now these are types of
wet weather so that means some water is
coming from the sky it's not a sunny day
right it's not just a windy day water is
coming from the
guy water can come from the sky in many
different ways one way is by rain rain
water falling from the clouds in liquid
drops so this is the key right here
liquid it's not a solid it's liquid its
water water drops drops of water are
falling of course you can also hear the
word rain drops rain drops you know the
song the famous song raindrops keep
falling on my head right there talking
about raindrops and that's when it's
raining so drops of water rain drops are
falling from the sky
now that's rain that's when it's warm
out right or it's not too cold but when
it gets colder that the liquid changes
to a solid but think about this
situation where it's cold but not that
cold it's kind of in-between and that
situation in that situation we have
sleet remember sleet is a mixture it's a
mix
you've got rain and snow so rain liquid
and snow solid but it's kind of in
between it's kind of mixed by the way we
could say it's slushy SL u s H Y and
this follows our same pattern slush is a
noun that's a mixture it's kind of when
water is between liquid and ice imagine
some of your favorite drinks right maybe
you get a fruit strawberry slushy right
so you look at the watt of the
strawberry slush your drink you put a
straw in it you can drink some of the
liquid but you drink the liquid and then
the liquid goes away but you still have
ice inside your cup that is slush
it's slushy imagine that is falling from
the sky that is sleet okay let's take a
look at a video of sleet here we have a
day these are two leaves on the ground
you can kind of see the sleet that's
coming down it's it you see the little
piece of ice that just landed on that
leaf but other places it looks wet
that's water
so it's kind of a mixture we can see B
between water and ice we just saw the
last part that it hit there it's kind of
like it's not really snow but it's not
really rain either it's a it's a it's
kind of in between and that of course is
sleep and we can say that this is very
slushy and that's a good word to
remember too because when we're talking
about the condition of the ground you're
walking around
it's slushy outside so we're good boots
right wear something that will keep your
feet dry because it's slushy outside so
that's a good word to remember okay
moving on we have snow snow is frozen
water vapor that falls to the ground so
it's frozen so it becomes a solid when
something is frozen it becomes a solid
it's falling to the ground it's frozen
water that is falling to the ground snow
now we didn't talk about this but this
is an interesting word okay this is
another type of wet weather a blizzard
you guys pronunciation blizzard blizzard
a blizzard is very heavy snowstorm
remember before I taught you light and
heavy but when snow is falling very
heavily and there's also high winds high
winds very strong winds that's a special
type of weather that we call a blizzard
blizzards can be dangerous right because
you can't see very far it's very cold
because of the high wind you don't want
to be outside without shelter in a
blizzard okay let's take a look at a
video showing a blizzard now this of
course is at an airport right we see an
airplane here the snow is coming down
it's kind of heavy
and you can see if you look over here
where it's dark you can see the snow is
almost going horizontally almost at an
angle it's going is not coming down it's
going across because there's such high
winds at this Airport
these are blizzard conditions you can
see the machines they're clearing the
snow away from the runway now probably
this Airport will be shut down blizzards
are not good for transportation it's
very difficult to dry
in a blizzard it's dangerous for pilots
to fly a plane in a blizzard so
blizzards usually typically shut down
airports and also shut down other forms
of transportation as well blizzards are
troublesome weather okay let's do
another exercise here this is a picture
based exercise we have two pictures one
and two showing much different weather
conditions we should choose one of these
answers for both of these pictures
aren't one for each picture right it's
kind of complicated we have four choices
down here we have two pictures let's
match one of these choices to this
picture and one of these choices to this
picture taking a look at the first
picture looks like a beautiful day
doesn't it people are out there walking
down a street looks like a tourist
destination many tourists are out there
wearing shorts short sleeve shirts so
it's not cold this woman here is wearing
a bathing suit with shorts so it's not a
cold day and it seems to be very bright
and there's a lot of Sun coming down so
what can we say about this picture is it
foggy is it sunny
is it windy or is it snowing if we take
a look at this picture of course it's
not foggy foggy would mean there's a lot
of clouds we can't see very far is it
sunny
yes it is sunny so this is the answer
right here B right it is sunny is it
windy well we have to look carefully to
see if it's windy we can look at
people's hair doesn't seem to be moving
so much we can look at the trees whether
the tree doesn't seem it seems to be
crooked growing but this tree seems to
be standing straight up so we can't say
it's really windy more obvious is that
it is sunny in this picture over here in
this picture it's a much different
situation isn't it these poor guys
trying to go to work their clothes are
being pushed on their bodies
they're holding umbrellas in front of
them to keep the rain off because the
rain isn't coming down straight it's
coming in an angle so in this picture we
can say what it is very windy isn't it
it's very
very windy in this picture is it foggy
No is it sunny no is it snowy no it is
windy so this shows an example of bad
weather this is an example of good
weather good weather is sunny warm bad
weather is windy may be a little bit
cold okay so these are two different
much different weather conditions let's
take a look at our true/false questions
number one we talked about sleet before
and we talked about a lot remember
sleet is a mix of snow and rain is that
true absolutely that is true we've
talked about a lot remember to mix it's
in between it's not liquid water
completely it's not really frozen snow
either it's kind of between the solid
and the liquid stage it's slushy right
when it falls down the ground the ground
is slushy that is sleet on number two on
a cloudy day there is a lot of sunlight
does that make sense if there are clouds
covering the sky can we see the Sun
maybe we can see the Sun a little bit
but it's hard for the Sun to go through
the clouds so there's not a lot of
sunlight that is false so this is not
true on a cloudy day because clouds
block the sunlight so there can't be a
lot of sunlight if we change it on a
cloud of day there isn't a lot of
sunlight then that would be true but we
have to change the sentence so it's
false three weather never changes
that means the weather always stays the
same it's always sunny or it's always
raining is that true of course it's not
true that's false one thing about the
weather is that it's always changing
right we can't expect the weather to
stay the same all the time unless well
it's true that in some parts of the
world the weather seems to stay the same
most the time but it will always change
even if it's sunny it will eventually
rain it will change eventually so this
is obviously incorrect
ok let's take a break here we're gonna
go into the reading section after a few
minutes ok welcome back let's go over
the reading section the reading section
of course we're talking about the
weather we have our topic sentence here
weather is the conditions the conditions
of the air outside so what are the
conditions of the air outside remember
we can talk about different kinds of
weather there are many different kinds
of weather it can be warm cool hot or
cold in this case of course we're
talking about the temperature temper
sure temperature you guys temperature
when we're talking about the temperature
that's one part of the weather that's
very important we want to know is it hot
outside should I bring a coat or not is
it cold outside is it freezing outside
should I wear a heavy coat so the
temperature warm cool hot or cold we're
talking about temperature another part
we can observe we can see how the
weather changes so what's happening
outside we can also say what is the
weather like what is the weather like is
it raining
is it sunny is it windy what is the
weather like outside we can look outside
we can observe and see how the weather
changes because yesterday it could have
been sunny but you wake up the next day
you want to know is it still sunny or is
it raining do I need an umbrella let's
observe the weather and see what it's
what's happening outside so sometimes
there is snowy weather snow in snowy
days the weather is very cold of course
because for snow for water to freeze
into snow it has to be cold outside so
on snowy days the weather is very cold
sometimes it's not that cold
it's in-between so we have
sleet remember sleet is a mix of both
snow and rain the temperature isn't
really cold if it's really cold it would
snow if it was warm it would rain but
the temperature is between warm and cold
right it's so this the rain that comes
down is sleet okay it still can be cold
but not freezing cold the next one on
rainy days the weather is wet on rainy
days the weather is wet obviously the
rainy season occurs between June and
July in some places in the northern
hemisphere also in some other places as
well we have the rainy season that's
kind of in the summertime in Korea of
course you guys have a very strong rainy
season right the rain really comes down
in June right and maybe stops in July
hopefully it stops in July then we can
enjoy a sunny summer on windy days you
have to be careful of the wind right
remember the two businessmen walking
across the street with their umbrellas
right the wind was really pushing their
umbrellas and their clothes around their
legs as well you have to be careful the
wind because it might blow you away
right especially if a very strong wind
comes along you can be knocked down by
the wind by the way very very strong
winds cause storms like blizzards
hurricanes and even some strange weather
occurrences like tornadoes tornado
tornado is very strong wind moving in a
circle
okay so tornadoes yeah they can blow you
away they're very dangerous be careful
okay when the weather is cloudy it could
mean that rain is coming before it rains
the sky has to become cloudy of course
if there are no clouds there is no rain
rain comes from clouds so when the
weather is cloudy
it could mean rain is coming coming
observe the clouds if the clouds are
dark or black probably it will rain
sometimes the weather is beautiful and
there is a lot of Sun so no clouds no
rain just clear skies we can also say
another word here clear skies
whoops clear skies so if the weather is
beautiful there's a lot of Sun there's
no clouds it's clear skies very
beautiful nice weather this is called
sunny weather it is good for people to
play outside of course when the when you
have clear skies that's a great day to
go outside and enjoy the outdoors you
run play take a walk if it's windy you
can fly a kite it's a beautiful day it
has clear skies okay when we talk about
the weather it's very easy to use this
reading skill comparing contrast because
weather changes you know sometimes it's
rainy
sometimes it's clear sometimes it's hot
sometimes it's cold we can compare and
contrast the weather very easily now of
course we can put a chart up here we can
say how is the weather alike and how is
the weather different when we talk about
alike we say all weather all weather is
the conditions of the what outside we
have to fill in our blank with one of
these words changes air cloudy or cold
so what word would go on this blank air
all weather is the conditions of the
what outside of course we're looking at
these words we should choose air all
weather is it conditions of the air
outside the air outside is the
atmosphere right what's happening in
that air is the air cold is the air hot
is it raining in that air in that space
is it clear is there no rain so all
whether we're talking about the
conditions of the air outside how is the
weather different right it can be warm
cool hot or what's another one warm cool
hot we're looking for another
temperature here changes air cloudy a
hot cold that's our word warm cool hot
or cold warm and hot are together right
hot is an extreme
it's a very hot warm is not so much hot
is an extreme it's hot really hot warm
is lesser not as much cold is another
extreme and then cool is not so much so
warm and cool are kind of in the middle
right
hot and cold are on extreme extreme
weather so if you're talking about
extreme weather it's very hot very cold
it's extreme so these two at the top are
extremes extreme hot and cold extreme
weather is very hot very cold okay okay
so we're talking about that that's how
weather can be different how the
temperature can be different and of
course you're talking here we're talking
about temperature temperature so how can
the weather be different it can be warm
cool hot or cold temperature we can also
observe how weather what changes air
cloudy cold of course we're talking
about how weather changes and then we're
talking about remember I told you before
how what is happening outside what's
going on it can be snowy rainy windy
deep or sunny so what's another thing
that we can use to describe what's going
on outside how is it changing well it's
cloudy right cloudy and these are kind
of like the conditions or what's
happening what's going on what is
happening so when we talk about the
weather right weather has two basic
components two basic components which
can be talking about the temperature we
can also be talking about the action
what is happening outside so temperature
warm cool hot or cold and also action
snowy rainy windy cloudy or sunny okay
so two elements to the weather when we
describe the weather and about what's
going on outside now let's go over our
comprehension questions the first one
here is what is the weather like when it
is raining when it's rainy
remember
water is falling from the sky so is it
dry no way because water is falling from
the sky so now it's not dry is it season
season is not a weather type right
that's a different part of the year
right well we don't say what is the
weather like it is season that doesn't
make sense right so that's obviously
incorrect that leaves us with sea which
is our correct answer what is the
weather like when it's raining of course
it is wet it's wet outside bring an
umbrella or wear rain clothes okay let's
move on to number two on a snowy day the
weather is very what here we're talking
about temperature
remember snow is solid it's frozen solid
for water to freeze solid it must be
very cold outside right that is our
answer hot no that doesn't make sense
because the snow would melt it would be
rain warm again snow doesn't occur in
warm weather it only occurs in very cold
weather when it's so cold the water will
freeze so very cold weather number three
when it is getting more and more cloudy
outside the clouds are getting more and
more and maybe they're getting darker
and darker what do you think's gonna
happen a rain or snow might fall be the
rainy season will stop see it is the
best time to play outside let's talk
about these imagine that it's getting
more and more cloudy more and more
clouds are gathering in the sky what do
you think will happen a probably a right
rain or snow might fall rain or snow
might fall B the rainy season will stop
that doesn't make sense
right the rainy season will stop but
more and more clouds are getting
together besides just because more and
more clouds are getting together it
could doesn't matter whether it's the
rainy season the dry season it could
still happen in both seasons see it is
the best time to play outside no way
your mother would say no it's getting
more and more cloudy stay inside
right it might rain you don't want to
get wet so a of course is our right
answer on number 4 on a very windy day
the wind is very strong
air is moving very quickly what happens
a the weather is very beautiful be sleet
or snow can never fought fall or see the
wind might blow you away remember what
we talked about before in a previous
slide we said the weather is very
beautiful well it could be a could be an
answer but what's a more appropriate
answer sleet or snow can never fall well
that's not true that's obviously not
true because sleet or snow can fall
obviously on windy days it usually is
windy when it when there's sleet or snow
that's not true see the wind might blow
your way this is our best answer right
because on a very very windy day the
wind might blow you away of course we
wouldn't really say the weather is very
beautiful because even though if you
look outside say wow it's really
beautiful because the wind is blowing
quickly if you're outside you wouldn't
think it's beautiful because that's
that's not a good thing it's not not
something you want so you wouldn't say
the weather is very beautiful our best
choice there is see the wind might blow
you away on a very very windy day so be
careful let's move on here we have our
chart types of weather we have been
talking about lots of different types of
weather we saw this chart before let's
put the weather adjectives into the
right picture to describe the weather we
use these words to describe the weather
what's the weather like so here we have
a cloud so it might be clap there might
be clouds in the sky this is very easy
right cloud is our noun what is the
weather like it is cloudy it is cloudy
here we have a picture of a strong wind
so if there's a lot of wind outside
remember wind is our noun what is the
weather like it is very windy windy here
we have a snowflake so this is snow snow
is our now if you see snow outside you
can say it is snowy it is snowing okay
over here we have rain a rain cloud a
cloud that rain is coming down so net
rain is our noun what is the weather
like it is rainy over here
we have fog right this is fog it's when
the cloud comes down to the ground or we
go up in the mountains inside the cloud
we can't see very far we call that fog
the noun is fog the weather is foggy
finally we have the Sun when the sun's
out there aren't any clouds in the sky
there's a lot of sunlight coming down we
say that it is sunny
ok so lots of different types of weather
after studying this lesson you can go
outside you can say very easily what the
weather is like outside remember you can
talk about temperature hot cold warm
cool we can also talk about what's
happening what is the action is it
cloudy is it windy is it snowy is it
rainy is it foggy is it sunny what's
going on outside so hopefully it's a
good weather outside if it is go outside
and enjoy yourself
if it's bad weather stay inside study
some more
ok well we'll see you next time take
care
American Textbook Reading | Science 02