# American Textbook Reading Transcript

- [American Textbook Reading Transcript](#american-textbook-reading-transcript)
  - [American Textbook Reading | Science 01](#american-textbook-reading--science-01)

## American Textbook Reading | Science 01

[American Textbook Reading | Science 01 | Science Grade 1 | Lessons 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBvV5t_YRQM&list=PLORqQa0DiANGX1G2YWOBL5tfSPODkkIVB)

ðŸ’“ [Lesson 06 | Where Animals Live]
== Where Animals Live ==
A habitat is a place where animals live. There are many kinds of habitats. Forests are a good habitat for animals to live. In a forest, there are many trees, plants, and food. In a rainforest there are also many trees and it rains a lot. The ocean is another habitat. The ocean is a large area of salt water. Many animals that can swim live in the ocean. In a wetland , there is a lot of
water and plants. Its water is salty or not salty. A grassland is flat and has a lot of grass. The Arctic and the desert are habitats that are not good for animals to live. The Arctic is very cold. A desert is very hot and dry. In the desert it does not rain much.

Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading now we've been talking
a lot about animals haven't we in the
last few lessons in this lesson lesson
six we're going to talk about where
animals live okay so where do all of
these animals that we've been talking
about where do they live
in this unit you will discover different
kinds of habitats now that's an
interesting word their habitats actually
let's get into that right away with the
word habitat so habitat is a place where
animals live where an animal lives so a
habitat is talking about you know the
environment their surrounding if an
animal lives in a forest that's a type
of habitat or if an animal lives in a
desert that's a different type of
habitat right we talked about us you
know
do you like to live in the city that's a
type of habitat or in the country that's
another type of habitat so there are
many different kinds of habitats and in
this lesson we are going to talk about
different habitats and different words
to describe the habitats about where
animals live okay let's take a look at a
video of a special kind of habitat what
can we say about this habitat we can see
this bird here where does this bird live
we can see water here looks like maybe a
river or a lake we have a lot of
vegetation plants growing in the
background so we can see that this bird
here this is mama bird right these are
her babies
what is mama bird doing she really seems
to be caring more about her appearance
than about her babies she's really going
going
fixing her feathers or maybe she has an
insect in there and she's trying to get
that insect I don't know but anyway
obviously these birds live here this is
their home this is where the babies
hatched it's where they're growing up
this type of habitat with all the water
around and the plants and the the trees
we could call that a wetland okay it's a
wetland
there's another type of habitat we can
talk about and we can see well this is a
very special looking type of forest here
a forest of course is an area where
there are many trees okay so in a forest
you can't really see very far because
there's so many trees a forest is an
area with many trees and plants but
really it's trees that make a forest now
this is kind of a special forest this is
probably in Northern California where we
have these huge redwoods okay could also
be in Australia they also have very tall
trees in Australia I'm not sure where
this picture is from but this is kind of
a special forest isn't it we don't
really have this kind of these kinds of
big trees in most forests most forests
have the smaller trees like this one
over here but a forest is just an area
with a lot of trees different types of
animals will live in different types of
habitats forests will talk about what
kinds of animals live in these different
areas later on okay so we looked at
forests but there's another type of
forest that's a little special right
it's called a rain forest right or rain
forest of course is different from a
normal forest because of rain it rains a
lot right so a rain forest is a forest
in an area where it rains a lot so this
type of forced people can also say it's
a jungle right jungle especially if the
jungle is in a hot humid area that's a
jungle we find jungles in South America
and Africa if it's further north right
further north but it still rains a lot
we can still call it a rain forest maybe
not so much a jungle because the jungle
is really hot but it's a rain forest and
this is a special area where it gets a
lot of rain the plants are really really
thick and there's a lot of different
animals that live in rain forests the
amount of animals and types of animals
that live in a rain forest is really
great a lot of different variation a lot
of different species live in a rain
forest let's take a look at a video here
we can see a video here of a rainfall
first and we can kind of see you know
this this vapor what is this stuff
this is vapor it's like mist it's so
humid there that the water is in the air
we can see it moving around on top of
the water here we can see very very
green very very dense very thick plant
growth and that's what a rainforest is
like so lots of water lots of plant
growth and it's hot and it's very humid
there's a lot of moisture in a
rainforest ok we'll move on this is a
completely different type of habitat on
one side we have rainforests lots of
rain on the other end the opposite end
we can have a desert no rain or very
very very little rain and we call this
of course a desert we see a picture of a
desert here well one of the more famous
animals that live in a desert is a camel
right camels live in deserts because
they can store their food and water in
the hump on their back so they can
survive for a long time without water
and a desert is a place that gets little
or no rain so camels are adapted to live
in the desert they are they can live in
the desert because they have adapted to
the climate in the desert the fact that
there is little or no rain there ok so
that's a desert oh wow this is very
exciting
we have dolphins here right and the
dolphins live in the ocean of course you
know what the ocean is an ocean is a
very large area of salt water salt water
very important because of its fresh
water it's not an ocean ok fresh water
if you have a large body of fresh water
that is a lake not an ocean ok a large
body of fresh water is a lake like you
have in America you have the big lakes
the Great Lakes they're freshwater not
saltwater if the saltwater we call it an
ocean
now these dolphins live in the ocean of
course they live in the water they're
just having fun it looks like that that
looks like a lot of fun right there
doesn't it they're just coming out of
the water but of course they live most
of their lives in the water
okay very exciting picture that's an
ocean okay we also have a very special
type of habitat and that is called the
Arctic the Arctic the Arctic is an icy
and cold place near the North Pole the
Arctic is in the North Pole Antarctic is
the South Pole but we are talking about
the Arctic here polar bears live in the
North Pole polar bears don't live near
the South Pole similar conditions North
Pole and South Pole right but in the
Arctic it's special there is no land
under the ice no land it's just ice that
ice never melts Oh some of it does sure
but most of it never melts right at the
top of the North Pole
so this polar bear is walking on ice
underneath the ice is water no land
that's how cold it is that the ice stays
frozen all year round now of course it
it shrinks in those summertime and it
grows in the wintertime it does go like
this so some ice does melt but a lot of
it never melts okay so that's very
interesting if we take a look it's very
cold up there can you imagine what life
is like for the polar bear there does he
look cold he doesn't look that cold
actually he's kind of big right polar
bears are our big animals but look at
the fur on that on that polar bear he
has a really big coat a really thick fur
of hair and that's what keeps him warm
even though he lives up in the Arctic
you know he stays warm because he's got
such a good coat of hair on he stays one
there
he doesn't look cold he's just kind of
like shuffling along like a like
ordinary bears do you know and they
usually eat seals under the ice that's
what they hunt okay it was too cold in
the Arctic let's move on to a wetland a
wetland is a special type of habitat
because it's a mixture
of water and plants or a little bit of
land a wetland is an area covered with
water and plants so wetland sure there's
water there but the land is not too far
underneath the water the water is not
very deep the water is usually shallow
in a wetland for most of the wetland and
you could probably walk out there the
water would come up to your your legs or
maybe your hip or your waist up here but
you could probably walk out there
because the plants are just are growing
in the ground just under the surface of
the water and this is a wetland a
wetland is very very important for many
birds birds who will fly by they will
come down here and this is a very very
good habitat for many types of birds
like ducks and geese and swans birds
will come here and they'll be able to
swim around find food and it's a very
good habitat not just for birds but for
many other types of animals and a lot of
animals will live in this type of
habitat okay another type of habitat is
a grassland now grass that of course is
there's lots of grass but there's no
water right here right though if there's
water it's under the ground right you
will not get wet if you go walking along
a grassland but another point about a
grassland there are no trees so it's not
a forest it's open grassland you can see
for very far grassland is a large flat
area with a lot of grass so the
characteristics about grassland no trees
it's flat so you don't have mountains or
Hills and it's large it's a large area
it's flat and it has a lot of grass what
lives there well in the American West a
long time ago Buffalo I lived on the
grass line antelope live in the grass
line deer live in the grassland lots of
different animals will come by and eat
the grass ok and they can roam and run
around free and without any barriers
like trees or mountains or Hills ok so
that's a grassland now we also have a
word here this is not a habitat but it's
its
it's a verb to cover to cover something
means to give it shelter and make it
safe so what kind of animal is this kind
of a cute G animal right cute it's a
cute little crab here and this is a
special type of crab it's called a
hermit crab a hermit crab so this animal
is a hermit because he lives alone he's
a hermit crab and they're very cute you
probably have seen these before maybe
you've had one as a pet before I don't
know but the crab will will go inside
the shell and when it gets too big what
does he do he leaves that shell and he
picks up another shell and goes into
that right so hermit crabs are very
interesting they cover their bodies with
a shell made by a different animal right
you can't really call this a habitat but
it's it's just a L that covers the
animal a habitat is the area where an
animal lives this is just a shell it
covers the hermit crab so some animals
will cover themselves with things in the
environment like a hermit crab very very
smart a little crab isn't he okay now
let's take a little bit of a review here
we have different types of environment
different places for animals to live
let's review here we can see that this
deer here or this antelopes alright this
antelope is living in a forest it's
covered with trees and plants although
this you know this is a forest we can
say it's a force because we probably
have a small tree here some plants here
but it looks like the area is kind of a
mixture
there's forest here there's also
grassland in the background okay so this
this part over here would be forest okay
where they're plants and trees
okay so let's we talked about a wetland
here let's watch a video about a wetland
and this is a typical wetland we can see
the water here down on the bottom we can
see the a lot of plants grow there's a
bunch of birds right there that's a
flock of birds coming up from the
wetland and flying around something must
have scared them right or maybe they
just decided hey let's let's move to
another place okay so this is a typical
habitat for BRR
it's a wetland we can see the the
combination of water and land okay right
underneath the surface of the water okay
let's move on the next one is a desert
desert of course is characteristic
because it has very little rain and
camels are adapted camels can live in
the desert because they carry their food
and water around with them they can
survive a long time without water let's
take a look at a video of a desert and
these are camels moving across the
desert look at how dry it is there's no
water around here right there's lots of
camels they can get around they can
survive in the desert but look at the
ground there's no plants no water very
very dry look at that it's just dusty
they're kicking up the sand
there's just dusty there's just
absolutely no water in that ground okay
there's a little bit of plants but the
plants are brown they look like they're
dead they haven't had a drink for a long
time it's getting hot let's move on okay
the next place ahh ocean yeah I like the
ocean I like the ocean more than the
desert really the ocean of course is a
large body of salt water let's take a
look at a video of an ocean okay if we
take a look at that oh look at that I
think this is my favorite place this is
my favorite habitat you could lay on the
beach get some Sun you can go swimming
in the water
you can catch a crab for your dinner
okay so an ocean as another type of
habitat a lot of different types of
animals will live there I don't know if
these crabs would be good for dinner and
out they're a little small but you could
go fishing off in the ocean a lot of
fish and other animals will live out in
the ocean okay and it's a very beautiful
habitat okay of course I like to be on
the coast I wouldn't want to be out in
the ocean that would get a little too
much right but I would rather be on the
on the edge of the ocean next to the
ocean okay let's review with some
exercises we've talked a lot about
different vocabulary let's put them into
sentences our first sentence an icy and
cold place near the North Pole our
choices desert
ocean habitat forest rain forest or
Arctic okay
so we've just talked about these which
one of these habitats is an icy and cold
place near the North Pole if you chose
the Arctic that's correct that's
absolutely correct so it's the Arctic
icy and cold right so cold that ice
never melts at the North Pole
okay so that would be the Arctic okay
number two a place where an animal lives
a place where an animal lives so we're
looking for a word that's not a habitat
but that describes all places where
animals live and I just gave you the
answer Dana it's not a habitat it is it
is not one of these specific habitats
it's the word habitat which describes a
type of area or a type of environment
where an animal lives that is a habitat
a place where an animal lives so habitat
is like the super word and the smaller
words desert ocean rainforest all of
these other they are under the word
habitat habitat is the the super word on
top and all the other places are below
okay okay
so number three a place that gets little
or no rain right camels live there that
gives you a hint of course if you chose
desert you would be correct right we saw
the video of the desert really hot dry
hardly any rain gets there at all okay
let's move on to the next three number
four a wood in an area where it rains a
lot so a wood is also synonymous
synonymous means the same thing as
forest so wooden force to mean the same
thing you could substitute the word
forest here the reason they didn't put
it there was because it's too easy if I
if they put forest here because of
course you can just put these two words
together rain and forest and you have
your answer
rain forest so in a wood or a forest in
an area where it rains a lot is a rain
forest let's move on to number five an
area with many trees and plants kind of
talked about that already didn't we
of course that is the forest forest is
an area with a lot of trees a lot of
plants growing okay you can't see very
far and there's a lot of vegetation a
lot of plants a lot of trees okay number
six our final one a very large area of
salt water not freshwater saltwater we
talked about that that's the ocean
that's a very beautiful place of course
to live if you live on the beach or you
live next to the ocean it's a very
beautiful place but saltwater many
animals live in the ocean lots of fish
and some mammals too as we saw in the
previous lesson okay well let's take a
look here at a chart we have a chart
showing animals in each different
habitat okay over here we have the
habitat on the bottom we can start with
there we have forests we have wetland we
have ocean we have desert we have
pictures of the different types of
animals that live in each type of
habitat we also have some other names of
animals that also live in that habitat
let's go over the chart in turn in the
forest so in the forest a bear lives in
the forest also deer owls and squirrels
live in the forest of course you know
what a squirrel is right it's a small
little creature with a big bushy tail
big bushy furry tail
we saw one before when we were talking
about fur that's a squirrel right so
beer bear deer owls and squirrels live
in the forest if you go in the forest
those are the animals you will probably
see how about in a wetland we have a
picture here of a baby crocodile and
he's kind of cute but be careful he can
he can bite your finger right so it's an
alligator right oh I have a baby
alligator here or you can all say
crocodile depending on freshwater or
saltwater snails or mosquito mosquito oh
I hate mosquitoes don't you
Mogi she died all right I really don't
like mosquitoes but on four
if you go to the wetland the mosquitoes
will find you maybe you're not looking
for the mosquitoes you're not finding
the mosquitoes the mosquitoes will find
you they'll come to you don't worry if
you want to see a mosquito but usually
people don't want to see mosquitoes
those are things that live in the
wetland how about the ocean of course we
know that sharks live in the ocean right
sharks are very impressive and amazing
creatures right so sharks live in the
ocean dolphins we saw the picture the
Dolphins jumping over the oceans Wow
great right so dolphins whale really big
whales and go what is it goal a goal is
a type of bird a seagull
these types of birds live on the ocean
or next to the ocean and they usually
you know they go for fish and crabs and
they live on parts of the ocean in fact
a long time ago when sailors were
sailing across the ocean when they saw
seagulls they knew land is close by so
seagulls are very common at the ocean in
the desert what kind of animals can we
find in the desert well here is a
picture of a camel we saw other pictures
of we saw the video with many many
camels moving along what other kind of
animals can we find in the desert
scorpion
be careful a scorpion right it's that
creature with the tail that comes on and
and sticks you it's got poison it
scorpions are dangerous be careful of
those and of course lizards live in the
desert these animals don't need a lot of
water they don't need a lot of rain so
these animals can live in the habitat of
the desert these are all different
habitats ok let's take a look here we
now this is kind of like a quiz we're
gonna give you a little bit of a quiz to
take a look at these different things we
have pictures here of different habitats
some of them have animals in it I like
this picture this squirrel has a very
interesting haircut right he looks
pretty cool ok maybe was a rebel
squirrel okay so we have different
pictures of different habitats and we
have the words here what we need to do
is match them so let's work together ok
the first one here let's go with the
words first forest which picture
shows us a forest here that doesn't that
doesn't have a lot of trees or plants
doesn't and a lot of trees or plants
here hey wait a minute this squirrel is
sitting on a branch that is a branch of
a tree and that's probably our forest
right there there's no a lot of trees
here so in a forest there are many trees
so we will match this up like that okay
so our forest is here with the with the
squirrel with a really cool haircut okay
okay
B we have wetland remember we talked
about wetland is a mixture of water and
land and that look that looks like this
picture right here right we can see the
water and we can see that the plants are
growing right on top of the water I'm
not really on top of the one of their
roots are going to the land there's land
right underneath the water so the water
is very shallow in the wetland good to
habitat for birds next our next choice C
is ocean of course we can find that
right away these are our last two
choices ocean of course there's a lot of
water right it's saltwater we know that
because whales live in salt water and
this is a picture of a whale by the way
you might be wondering what this white
thing here is that that's a section of
ice it looks like a glacier sticking out
on the ocean so this is up north this is
very cold ocean up here this whale is
swimming next to a big chunk of ice okay
so that leaves us with our last one that
of course is the desert we can see a
snake that lives in the desert snakes
also live in the desert along with
scorpions and camels and other lizards
are lizards there's little or no rain
right there's no water here nothing
grows but snakes can get along in the
desert okay so that matches it up and
that is our review for the habitats okay
finally we come to the true/false
questions if the sentence is true we
Circle T if the sentence is false we
circle F let's take a look number one a
desert is a very dry place true or false
that's pretty easy of course it's true a
desert is a very dry place little or no
rain hardly any water in the desert we
just saw a picture of
desert with the snake number two a
wetland is a very large area of salt
water it's that true or not and that's
not true right that's false a wetland is
not salt water I didn't really talk
about that before I was talking about an
ocean has salt water but a wetland is
usually freshwater right wetland is
usually fresh water and a wetland is a
mixture of water and plants it's not a
very large area of salt water that would
be the ocean and plants don't live very
well in salt water
seaweed does but that's an exception
usually plants don't live well in salt
water so a wetland is a very large area
of freshwater and plants vegetation so
this is false it's not salt water three
habitats is an area where it rains a lot
is that true enough remember I made a
special point about habitat habitat is a
special word that describes different
areas right so habitat is a super word
Forest desert rainforest wetland these
are all types of habitats so habitat is
an area where it rains a lot that's not
true right that would be false if we
crossed out habitats and we put rain
forests then it would be true but it's
not like that so it's a false statement
as it is if we want to make it true
we have to change it then it would be a
true sentence but habitat that's false
that's not correct
okay well that we're gonna take a short
break here and then we're getting into
the reading section next so let's take a
short break see you soon okay welcome
back it's time to go over the reading
section for this lesson
now the reading section again we have a
topic sentence here a habitat is a place
where animals live okay this is a good
topic sentence again a good use of the
word habitat remember habitat is the
super word right all the different types
of habitats are linked to it so we have
rainforests desert wetlands right so of
course we're going to talk about a
habitat is a place where animals live
and
there are many kinds of habitats right
there are many different types of
habitats this passage will describe many
different types of habitats so let's see
what kinds of habitats we have here of
course this is a certain type of habitat
take a look at this it's kind of
interesting what is going on here
there's a little gopher coming on out
you got dirt all over his face
crazy now he's all kind of dirty face so
he shakes it off right
what a silly silly gopher right okay he
comes on out and we can't really see
much of the surrounding area but we can
see that his habitat is a hole in the
ground okay his habitat is a hole in the
ground so he probably lives in the
Prairie or grassland okay Oh forests are
a good habitat for animals to live so
one type of habitat is a forest and we
can see a picture of a forest here in a
forest there are many trees plants and
food so this is our first habitat right
here forests we hear a kind of a general
sentence about forests then we hear more
details many trees many plants and lots
of food okay
then we move on to our second type of
habitat and that is rain forests in a
rain forest there are also many trees
and it rains a lot but of course the
difference between rain forest and
forest is that Ana rainforest it really
rains a lot probably almost every day
there's so much water in a rain forest
in a forest like this it probably rains
a bit but it probably doesn't rain every
day and not a lot right they're still
open it's still a little bit dry on the
ground but rain forest is very very wet
area very wet forest ok another habitat
is the ocean so the ocean is another
habitat here we have another general
sentence and more details about the
ocean what can we say about the ocean
it's a large area of saltwater not
freshwater saltwater many animals that
can swim like these dolphins here live
in the ocean fish whales all sorts of
different animals
that can swim live in the ocean okay
what's another type of habitat actually
we have two habitats on this slide the
first one of course is a wetland there
is a lot of water and plants its water
is salty or not salty true before I said
wetlands are usually freshwater but some
wetlands next to the ocean they can be
salty a little bit salty right probably
a mixture of freshwater and saltwater
okay so a wetland is an area that's
covered with water but the water isn't
very deep that's a very important part
of a wetland so it's not very deep so
the plants can reach down and grow off
the ground that's just under the surface
of the water and that of course is what
we call a wetland a grassland is flat
you can see up for a very long long ways
you know of course has a lot of grass if
it didn't have grass it wouldn't be
called a grassland so a grassland is
flat it has a lot of grass okay okay the
Arctic and the desert two more habitats
that we're going to talk about our
habitats that are not good for animals
to live notice they're grouping these
two the Arctic and the desert they're
putting them in the same sentence
because they are both are not good for
animals to live it's difficult for
animals to live in the Arctic and it's
also difficult for animals to live in
the desert even though they are very
different types of habitats they're very
they are similar in the fact that they
are hard to live in the Arctic is very
cold there's no plants that grow up in
the Arctic so it's very hard for animals
to live up there on the other hand the
desert is very hot there's no rain so
again
plants don't grow in the desert it's
hard for animals to grow to live in the
desert well of course if you think about
it animals need plants to survive and
the force there's a lot of food because
there's a lot of plants so environments
are habitats where there's not a lot of
plants it's difficult environment for
animals to survive in the Arctic is very
cold a desert is very hot and dry in the
desert it does not rain
and we have different pictures okay even
though they look like very different
place the thing they have in common is
that it's very difficult to live in
these places in these two places okay we
finished the reading let's go on with
how that reading was organized here we
have the reading skill classify now this
reading passage is a very good example
of classification we have the word
habitat right we talked about the word
habitat there are different types or
kinds of habitats when you take a large
group and you pick out parts of that
group and you put them into smaller
groups that is called classify or
classifying over here we have a chart
that shows the name of the habitat over
here and then on the other side we have
the details of that habitat right so
let's take a look here we can figure
these out number a or a letter a we need
to fill in the black here our words here
cold dry flat ocean rain forest how do
we fit these words into this chart we
don't know the name of the habitat so we
should look at the details a lot of
trees it rains a lot okay so there's a
lot of trees there it rains a lot what
can it be of course if you picked rain
forest that is correct
it's rain forest okay B is our next
choice we don't know the name of the
habitat but we do know the details it's
a large area of salt water salt water so
what is that that of course is the ocean
we talked about that large area of salt
water is the ocean moving on down to the
next one we know the name we know the
name of the habitat but we need to
figure out something one of the details
it's a very hot and beep not much rain
so if it there's not a lot of rain what
is it is it cold
not necessarily dry ah that's our answer
very hot and dry dry means not much
moisture so it's very hot and dry
because it doesn't rain a lot in the
desert the next one is grassland
grassland we don't know this detail but
we can see it has a lot of grass if we
look down here what fits in there
cold in the grassland it can be in the
wintertime but not
usually dry we already use dry flat all
flat grassland is flat we talked about
that there's no hills or mountains to
break it up very flat area and it has a
lot of grass on it okay so that's called
a grassland finally our last habitat is
Arctic Arctic up at the North Pole
remember the South Poles Antarctic right
but we're talking about the Arctic up at
the North Pole and the Arctic is very
cold isn't it we saw that polar bear the
polar bear is not cold he's got a nice
thick fur on so he's not cold but you
saw where he was all around him is ice
and snow and that ice never melts it's
really cold there's no land up there
it's just ice that the animals walk
around on and it doesn't melt so they
can walk around on it okay so let's go
on to the next slide we're gonna do some
comprehension questions number one what
is the name for a place where animals
live so remember we're talking about not
just as one of the smaller words like
rainforest desert or ocean we're looking
for the super word that talks about all
the types of places where an animal will
live and that of course is habitat B
right a habitat is the name for any
place that an animal lives
it could be desert it could be a forest
it could be the ocean any place where an
animal lives we call it the habitat okay
alright a habitat number two the ocean
is a large area of what what are we
looking at our choices our ice and water
wetland or saltwater
okay the ocean is a large area of salt
water is our best choice now you could
say ice and water if you're up at the
Arctic right but the ocean also exists
of course in warmer areas so it's the
best choice here is saltwater right
because even though we can say that yeah
well sure there's a lot of ice and water
in the Arctic Ocean but it's not just
the Arctic Ocean we're talking about
oceans everywhere right so the ocean is
always just saltwater even at the Arctic
it's
water so this is our best answer see
wetland no remember wetland is very
shallow the land is right underneath the
water it's not an ocean right that's too
shallow to be an ocean that's a wetland
okay let's move on okay continuing on
with number three and number four three
we see a desert does not get much rain
and we have to finish this sentence but
look at this we have a B and C and they
all start with but-but-but okay so a
desert does not get much rain that's
true then we're looking for something
opposite that is also true or that makes
sense we got to get rid of the ones that
don't make sense or are a little silly
right so a desert does not get much rain
a but it is a good habitat for animals
to live in
is that true is a desert a good place
for animals to live in
if you remember it just a few minutes
ago I said a desert and the Arctic what
did they have in common they are both
difficult places for animals to live in
so this is not true right a desert is
not a good habitat for animals to live
in
a is not the answer a desert does not
get much rain but it still has a lot of
grass growing there that doesn't make
sense right if it doesn't get a lot of
rain there's not a lot of water there
there's not a lot of grass growing there
and remember we said we saw the picture
of the video of the desert it's just
sand it's just dry dirt there's not a
lot of plants growing there and the very
few plants we saw were brown and it's
not a lot this has a lot of grass so
this is not correct either okay that
leaves us with C let's see how it looks
a desert does not get much rain but our
rain forest does get a lot of rain and
that's true that's why we call it a rain
forest it gets a lot of rain so that is
true and that would be our correct
answer number C or letter C let's move
on to number four for a wetland has a
lot of water and plants true and then we
need to look at a B and C here we have
and
and but okay so a and B is like we're
saying something else that's true about
the wetland but B we're probably gonna
say something that's negative about or
opposite from the first part of the
sentence so let's go over them a wetland
has a lot of water and plants a and its
water can be salty or not salty we
talked about that a little before I said
the wetland is usually freshwater but it
can also be salty especially if it's
next to the ocean right and the land
kind of breaks up and the ocean can come
in and make it a little bit salty so
actually a is the correct answer
a wetland can be salty or not salty B
let's just practice continue and animals
like camels and scorpions live there
right so you can see scorpions swimming
along in the wetland no that's crazy
right scorpions don't live there they
can't live there camels would be very
out of place in the wetland of course
because you know they'd be stepping in
the water right so camels and scorpions
do not live in wetlands they live in
desert so obviously B is wrong how about
C a wetland has a lot of water and
plants but is very dry because it never
rains in a wetland it's very dry that
doesn't make sense it is very dry but
it's a wetland it has a lot of water so
that right there that doesn't that
doesn't make sense right it has a lot of
water but it is very dry that doesn't
make sense right there and of course
it's not true anyway because it does
rain in a wetland wetlands do get lots
of rain we didn't really talk about that
and but it does rain in a wetland but
just the fact that it says it has a lot
of water and it is very dry that doesn't
make sense it makes no sense at all so
that obviously is not correct and as we
saw before the correct answer is a let's
review very quickly we have a lot of
different pictures here these pictures
are all places to live what do we call
places to live do you remember we call
them we call it a habitats a habitat so
places to live habitat we have different
pictures of different habitats let's
review what are they we've seen these
pictures before we've seen this antelope
it
living we're not talking about this area
over here we're talking about this area
where there's lots of trees and plants
where there's an area with a lot of
trees and plants what kind of area do we
call that we call that a forest okay so
that would be a forest over here we have
a picture of a bird looks like the bird
is coming in for a landing right there's
a lot of water here we can imagine
there's there's land just under the
surface of this water because there are
plants growing up out of the water this
is a mixture of water and land and
plants we of course call that a wetland
very good environment for birds like
this one right here over here we see a
camel which kind of tells us right away
what kind of habitat oh I'm sorry I'm
skipping ahead we're gonna go over here
this this area here we see a lot of
water here we see a little crab here and
of course this water is salty right so
if this water is salty that makes that
an ocean okay and this is the beach
right here of course this could be a
picture of a lake but but usually
remember lakes are freshwater saltwater
we're talking about the ocean okay sorry
let's go back over here and we have our
animal here the camel and you can see
the camel is on very dry land not a lot
of water here is hardly any plants very
difficult place to live what lives here
camels scorpions snakes this place is
called a desert okay so this is a desert
so we have our review and of course we
have lots of other different habitats
also like for example the Arctic the
rainforest these are all different types
of habitats so when we think about
animals we can think about you know what
kinds of animals they are you know what
kinds of parts of the animals there are
and we can also think about where do
animals live and this unit was all about
where animals lived well I hope you
learned a lot as always we'll see you
guys next time take care everybody
