ðŸ’“[American Textbook Reading - Science 2 Books](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANHa5O2rk2wLyRZXTlYTI6SD)

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Science 02 | Lesson 08
[Seasons](https://youtu.be/Uwk69VA0b0Mâ€‹)

A season is a time of year.  There are four different seasons.  Every season has different weather. 
The pattern of the seasons is always the same every year. Spring is a warm and colorful season. 
There are many hours of daylight in spring. We can play outside and enjoy the plant blossoms. 
In summer, the weather is similar to spring but it becomes much hotter.  Summer is a season for swimming at the beach. The weather becomes colder in fall. There are less hours of daylight than in summer. 
Leaves change colors and drop from trees. Many fruits and vegetables are ripe in fall. 
Winter is the coldest season. In winter, snow falls and we have to wear our hats and gloves. 
Every season is different. There are special things to do in every season. 


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart well in this lesson
we're going to talk about the seasons so
in lesson 8 we're talking about seasons
and do you remember how many seasons
there are how many seasons are in Korea
that's right there are four seasons so
in this lesson you will discover four
seasons of course let's begin with
talking about what is a season a season
is any of the four main periods of the
year periods so when we talk about
periods right we can talk about the year
let me ask you this
how many months are in a year that's
right there are twelve months right so
if we break up those twelve months we
can break up those twelve months into
four different periods and if we do that
we have three months for each period
three months three months for spring
three months for summer three months for
fall and three months for winter that
adds up to twelve months so we have four
main periods of the year how do these
periods change if you look at it you can
see there are different weather
conditions in each of these four main
periods so we're breaking up the month
the year twelve months into three months
each that have different weather
patterns what are they well let's talk
about those different periods the first
period we can talk about is spring
spring is the season between winter and
summer sure okay so that's one way to
define spring but we're talking also
about how is Spring different what is
the weather like in spring what happens
during spring well if you think about it
many flowers many plants start to grow
again
right we can say that flowers flowers
bloom flowers start to grow again bloom
means that the flowers start to grow out
they start to grow out and they they
have new life it's interesting to think
about spring because another word for
spring spring also means to jump right
so if you spring you have a jump right
so it's like thinking about life life
jumps out in the spring especially after
winter well we'll talk about in a second
everything is dead
but then in the spring life springs out
life jumps out so that's a good way to
remember spring let's move on to summer
summer may be your favorite season
because what do you do in the summertime
you can go to the beach swim in the
water it's very warm it's very hot
outside actually summer is the warmest
the warmest we can also say the hottest
season of the year it comes after spring
so first we have spring then we have
summer summer it becomes hotter right
the weather is very hot the day is
longer and that's an important point
I mean why do the seasons change I mean
we can talk about that a little bit but
if you look at the earth this would be
the earth here maybe the sun's way far
away right it's shining out like this
well the earth turns right sometimes
the earth is like this so that the North
Pole this is the equator I'm sorry
not very good artist but the north part
of the earth is closer to the Sun in the
summer time so it's hotter in the winter
it changes it goes back and now the
northern part of the earth is far away
from the Sun and so it's cold so in
summertime that's what's going on the
earth is actually a little closer to the
Sun in terms of tilting so summer is the
warmest season of the year it comes
after spring another three months that
Earth starts to tilt back and it gets
cooler and then we have fall fall is the
season between
summer and winter what happens in fall
we can see this picture here you can see
many apples on the tree so in fall is
when many plants many plants bear fruit
and many other plants will wheat will
grow rice will be ready farmers go out
into their fields and they get the food
from the plants because that is the time
for the harvest season fall is really
the harvest season it's when farmers
will go out and get the food from their
fields and we call that the harvest okay
and that of course occurs in the fall
and you can see that many trees will
grow apples pears oranges rice wheat all
those things are ready to be harvested
in the fall and it's between summer and
winter so summer's over
winter is coming and winter is here
right winter is here winter is the
coldest season of the year very cool
remember that diagram I showed you right
here is the earth now the top part of
the earth is pointing away from the Sun
which is way over here okay so the sun
is shining on the earth but the earth is
tilted right so I'm sorry it should be
more like this right okay but the earth
is tilted away so now it's cold we're
not getting as much sunlight as we did
in the summertime so it's a very cold
season of the year it comes after fall
very cold and all the life dies right
most of the plant lives that it dies or
just goes to sleep really because don't
worry after winter what happens spring
will come back right so it's it makes a
cycle okay let's talk about daylight
daylight is very important when we talk
about the seasons as I told you a little
bit before in the summer time we have
the most daylight in the
enter time we have the least daylight
again that's because of the earth the
way that it moves as it spins daylight
daylight is the light that comes from
the Sun during the day of course because
it's daylight we don't call it night
light right we call it daylight so
daylight is the light that comes from
the Sun during the day and like I said
before in the summer time we have more
daylight in the winter time we have less
daylight that's important to remember
similar we have this word here similar
similar means almost alike
not exactly alike right if you want to
say something is didn't don't get a oh
right that's exactly alike exactly alike
but in this case similar is not exactly
alike no similar is almost alike so so
almost alike not chin sadaqa tail not
exactly alike right but almost alike it
looks similar so if you have these two
twins here looks like they had maybe a
little argument and he's making up with
his brother
they're not exactly alike there's a
little difference between them so they
are similar but not exactly alike
they're almost alike they're almost the
same okay
the next we have is a pattern a pattern
is something that happens in a cycle
remember we just talked about the
seasons spring summer fall winter what
happens it goes back to spring and then
it happens again in every year it
happens the same way and that follows a
pattern a pattern is something that
happens in a cycle so in other words it
repeats again and again also we can take
a look at shapes like these leaves here
and we can see that there's a pattern
because this leaf is similar to this
leaf they have the same
pattern and we could say that these
leaves grow in a very similar pattern so
that they are it's like a cycle they
will grow every year in the same pattern
in the same shape and also they keep
doing it in a cycle okay so that is a
pattern okay
we also see this word ripe what season
remember what I told you about the
seasons spring summer fall and winter
what season is ripe associated with
remember ripe if something is ripe it's
ready to eat before I told you about
harvest right harvest this is the time
when the farmers go out and they get the
fruit from the trees they get the rice
or the wheat from the fields because
those foods those plants are ripe they
are ready to eat and when did when does
that happen do you remember of course
the harvest happens in the fall so when
food is ripe usually in the fall it's
ready to eat and farmers will go out and
get the food and that is the harvest
okay so if something is ripe especially
plant food that means it's ready to eat
it's good for you to Kiwi is very good
you don't want to eat a kiwi fruit when
it's not ripe look it's sour right when
it's ripe it's delicious sweet and
delicious okay let's take a look at our
chart here our chart will show us the
four seasons so we have the name of the
season here we have the first two here
on the next slide we'll see the other
two but we have the name here we have a
picture associated with each season and
we have a little bit of a description
about talking about what these seasons
are like let's go over this chart so
first of all we have spring and we can
see this girl here she's got the flowers
the flowers are blooming right the life
is springing forth in the spring the
weather gets warm
remember spring is after the winter so
it's because it's getting warmer
okay people go outside in the winter
they're all cold they stay inside but in
the spring you can start to go outside
plants begin to grow plants begin to
grow that's what I was talking about
before life Springs out right life
Springs out plants begin to grow again
that's in the spring how about in the
summer this kid this boy looks like he
was just swimming right he can't swim
when it's cold out he wants to go
swimming when it's hot out right so in
the summer the weather gets hot people
wear light clothes like this boy right
he's wearing a bathing suit but people
will also wear t-shirts and shorts right
they don't have to wear a lot of clothes
like they do in the winter so people
will wear light clothes like t-shirt
shorts sandals things that are a light
clothes that are for warm or hot weather
they don't make you warm plants grow
fruits so plants are beginning to grow
fruits okay we can see that they're
growing but they're not ripe yet right
we have to wait until they're ripe let's
move on in the fall that's our next
season after summer we see the picture
of the girl right she's playing with the
dead leaves actually in the fall is kind
of opposite to the spring right as I
told you before in the spring life
Springs out it starts to grow again in
the fall life starts to die leaves start
to die so you see many beautiful colors
sure it's beautiful but they're dead
leaves let's take a look at fall the
weather gets cool right after the hot
summer the weather begins to get cool
again people wear heavier clothes
remember we talked about light clothes
before now people are wearing heavier
clothes and we can see this girl she's
wearing a sweater jackets boots long
pants like jeans these are heavier
clothes they keep you warmer so heavier
clothes
leaves change color and drop from the
trees because they're dying right there
very beautiful yes but they are dying
leaves okay
then that's in the fall also farmers
will go out and get that fruit that is
now ripe in the winter what happens look
at these kids they're having fun they're
on their sleds they're in the snow
they're gonna go play in the snow so
winter even though it's cold it can
still be fun what about winter the
weather gets cold right people wear very
heavy clothes okay so people are wearing
heavier clothes in the fall but in the
winter they wear very heavy clothes look
at these boys here right they are really
bundled up we talked about that in a
previous lesson
they are bundled up this is a good
example of being bundled up because
they're wearing very heavy clothes
they're covering almost all of their
body they're bundled up they are
protected from the cold they're wearing
coats with hoods they're wearing knit
hats on their heads they have heavy
boots on in fact I think this boy here
he's wearing a complete ski suit right
he's wearing a ski suit so he is very
bundled up right he's very warm he's
wearing very heavy clothes some plants
have no leaves that's interesting if you
look outside the trees some trees will
lose their leaves but other trees will
keep their leaves or there are their
greenness okay there's different types
of trees
some trees will lose all their leaves
some trees will keep the leaves
depending on what kind of tree it is
okay let's take a look at a video of the
winter okay you ready
what we're gonna see here is we're gonna
see a winter and it's going to change
seasons and this is talking about a
cycle we can see this cycle as it
repeats let's take a look here obviously
it's winter the seasons are going by
very fast of course in this video it
comes back to winter it's cycling around
so winter I'm sorry this is winter heavy
winter spring
then we have summer it's very hot and
then it comes back to fall and now it's
winter again so we you know it might
start even snowing in the fall but the
winter it's a lot of snow on the ground
everything looks dead trees lose their
leaves okay so it's very fast we saw how
it cycles through the seasons okay let's
talk about our words let's review and
see how well you remember the words that
we just studied in the vocabulary
section right let's see let's test our
memory in this exercise we have the
words here and we need to match them to
their definitions so how well do you
remember these words our words are
spring summer fall winter daylight and
season okay so let's take a look at
these first of all we have number one
the season right we're looking for a
season between summer and winter if we
look at our group of words right we can
see right away what are the seasons
first of all spring is a season right
winter is a season true is summer a
season you bet
summer is a season is daylight a season
no daylight is not a season what about
fall fall is a season that's true so we
have four seasons what about season
though season is a season that's kind of
strange to say season is a different
type of word season of course is your
large word it's your big word that
includes all of the types of the seasons
so if we would say season underneath
season we put fall we put winter we put
summer and we put spring okay so these
words fall under the big word of season
right season is like the umbrella word
it incorporates or it includes in the
group all these smaller words that's
talk about a type of season these words
are a type of season so season isn't
really the season we're looking for
we're only looking for these four words
here and of course we know there are
four seasons
so we're looking for the season between
summer and winter so that means after
summer and before winter
what is that season well of course if
you chose fall that would be correct
okay so out of these four words that
we're looking at we're looking at fall
number two
the season so again we're looking for
one of these four words we're looking
for a season in this case the season
between between winter and summer okay
so after the cold winter and before the
hot summer we have a period in between
those two this is when life Springs
forward right so spring is our word that
we need spring life Springs out number
three the light so we're not talking
about a season we're talking about light
the light that comes from the Sun during
the day actually that's very easy right
because we're looking for light that
occurs during the day that of course is
daylight right so that's an easy one
we're looking for the light that comes
from the Sun during the day
of course we call that daylight we put
these two words together day and light
put them together we have daylight okay
let's move on number four any of the
four main periods of the year any of the
four main periods of the year
now that's we need a large word right we
need a big word that includes all of the
seasons because the seasons are the four
main periods of the year but we're
looking for a large word that
incorporates or includes all of those
and of course like I told you before on
the previous slide that word is season
so any of the four main periods of the
year would be a season right we're not
saying specifically which which one it
is
we're going one step higher or we're
making a we're talking about the large
group and of course that is season okay
number five the coldest season so here
we're looking for a season of the four
words remember we we underlined the
seasons before okay
so now we're looking for the coldest
season of the
year and coming after fall so after fall
it becomes very cold kids are bundled up
they go out and they play in the snow
what season is that of course that is
winter okay so that would be the season
of winter finally number six the warmest
season so again we're looking for season
and we're looking for warmest the
hottest season of the year and it comes
after spring so spring summer fall
winter so we're looking for summer here
right and that is the warmest season of
the year it comes after spring okay so
that's our words let's move on to this
nice chart here and this chart gets to
what we were talking about a little bit
before remember I mentioned about the
the summer time the days are very long
in the winter the days are very short
this chart shows us that idea the
seasons and the Sun remember that chart
that I showed you before of the earth or
that diagram the earth moves like this
if the Sun is out here right sending its
sunlight or daylight right to the earth
sometimes the earth is tilted away from
the Sun right it's a way sometimes the
earth is tilted the other way
what is tilted away that's winter when
it's tilted towards the Sun that's
summertime so that the the daylight the
amount of daylight hitting the earth
varies we can see that in this chart in
March 25th March March is a month right
we talked about twelve months and we
divided those twelve months into three
month periods March is a month what
season is March in March of course is in
the spring so if it is March it's spring
sunrise this means when does the Sun
Rise when does the Sun seem to come up
over the horizon six o'clock in the
morning while that's very early isn't it
who are you awake at six o'clock okay
six o'clock in the morning six oh seven
in the morning
is when the Sun comes up when does the
Sun go down
when is it sunset right Sun comes up Sun
Goes Down
sunrise Sun sets the sunset is 6:15 p.m.
Wow if you look at at 6:07 a.m. 6:15
p.m. that's almost exactly almost
exactly not exactly but almost exactly
12 hours right twelve hours and eight
minutes okay so we have twelve hours of
daylight that's how much daylight we
have during the spring at a typical
month in the spring let's move on to the
next one July July is another month what
season is July in right this the months
of spring are March April and May those
are the three months for spring what are
the months for summer right then we have
so after March April May
we have June July August so July is the
middle month of summer so July belongs
in summer in July July 25th the sunrise
is at 5:35 a.m. that's really early Wow
I don't know if I'm away I'm still
sleeping at that time right how about
you are you sleeping at 5:30 in the
morning it's very very early the Sun
comes up at that time and it goes down
at 8:19 p.m. that's late right that's
very late in the evening right most
people have already eaten their dinner
right at at 8:00 p.m. they're already
getting ready for bed sometimes at 8:19
so look at this wow that's a lot of
hours of daylight 14 hours you see in
the spring we only had 12 hours but in
the summer we have 14 hours and 44
minutes that's really long there's a lot
of daylight in the summer time we have a
lot of day and that's why it's so hot
one of the reasons why it's so hot we
have more daylight and of course the Sun
is closer to the I mean the earth is
closer to the Sun
on the northern hemisphere okay now down
here we have September what month is
that so
if a June July August that's those are
the summer months what are the fall
months September October November
September October November those are the
fall months right
that's fall okay so fall is September in
the fall the Sun right now look at this
the Sun is rising later right it was
good if the Sun was coming up at 5
o'clock 5:30 in the morning in the
summer but now it's taking longer and
longer to rise right and it goes down at
7:00 so that gives us 12 hours in nine
minutes
so you see spring and fall are very
similar in the spring we have twelve
hours and eight minutes in the fall we
have twelve hours and nine minutes it's
almost the same right so that's because
of this cycle right because the earth is
spinning back and forth so it's coming
back around right and the fall is very
similar to the spring in terms of
weather and in terms of daylight's now
finally on our bottom chart here we have
December December what month are what
season is December in if fall is
September October November what are the
three months after the fall December
January and February those are the three
months for winter once more December
January February those three months are
in the winter so December is in the
winter and the Sun rises at 7:15 a.m.
that's later now some some usually we're
waking up at 7:15 right not 5:30 that's
too early but 7:15 that's a little bit
more of a decent hour that's a more
friendly hour of the morning right and
the Sun is coming up at that time look
at this it goes down so early 556 look
at the difference there in the summer
right the Sun went down at 819 that's
late at night in the winter time 556
that's like 6:00
right people are some people are still
eating dinner and the sun's going down
that's early I remember when I was
living in America
of course it this times are different
depending on how north how far north you
go if you're further north the Sun Goes
Down earlier I remember when I was
living in America I was living in in a
northern state the Sun would go down at
4:30 in the afternoon wow that's really
early okay so six o'clock in the in the
at sunset you only have ten hours and 41
minutes of daylight so basically this
chart is very interesting isn't it it
shows us that we have a lot of daylight
in the summer a lot of daylight in the
summer and a little bit of daylight in
the winter and of course in the spring
and the fall they're about the same
they're in-between the summer and the
winter so we can see that depending on
the season we have different lengths or
different amounts of time for daylight
in the summer we have a lot of daylight
in the winter we have less daylight
that's very important to remember okay
let's move on here we have some pictures
and we need to choose this season with
longer hours of daylight so we just
looked at that chart and we looked at it
in a lot of detail right but we we want
to know what season has longer hours of
daylight so for number one we have two
choices
a is spring B is summer so which season
according to the chart we just saw which
season has longer hours of daylight more
daylight do you remember in the summer
we saw that we had almost 42 we had more
than 14 hours of daylight but in the
spring it was only 12
so obviously this summer we have more
hours of daylight in the summer it said
14 and some minutes here we only had 12
hours so we have longer hours of
daylight in the summer okay how about
this one
choose a season with again longer hours
of daylight we have the fall and we have
the winter in the fall remember it's
similar to spring so we had about 12
hours in a few minutes of daylight
but in the winter do you remember that
we only had about ten hours of daylight
so which season has longer hours that of
course would be the fall they have about
twelve hours of daylight okay finally we
come to our true/false questions Circle
T for qu F for false so let's take a
look at number one winter is a warm and
colorful season right winter is very
warm and colorful does that sound right
to you in the winter time there's a lot
of snow snow is white the trees have
lost their leaves they usually look
black so winter really is black and
white not a lot of colors so that
doesn't seem right
also snow is not warm so this is not
correct right it's false to make this
sentence correct we would have to cross
out winter and put spring or fall either
one spring or fall because in the spring
it gets starts to get warm
flowers are blooming we can see many
colors also in the fall it's warm it's a
little cooler though so maybe that falls
not a great answer for this one but it's
still colorful because the leaves are
changing color on the on the leaves but
I would have a little bit of problem
with fall because fall is getting cooler
it's not so warm spring of course would
be your best choice to change the
sentence to make it true
but we have to change it so it's false
okay number two in summer there is
little daylight little means not a lot
just a little bit of daylight is that
true on the chart that we've studied a
couple slides ago we saw that summer had
a lot of daylight it was the longest
time for daylight there the very long
days for daylight so that's not true
right in the summer there is a lot of
daylight not little but a lot of
daylight okay so in the summer time
there is a lot of daylight
it summer is a season with the most
daylight number three the pattern of the
seasons is always the same
the pattern remember we talked about
pattern and remember pattern is similar
to a cycle and a cycle is something that
repeats itself again and again and again
so the pattern of the seasons is always
the same sure because that cycle
continues the same way every year every
three months is spring every three
months is summer the same three months
has fallen the third same three months
our winter every year it's the same so
the pattern of the seasons is always the
same yeah you bet that's absolutely true
okay well that wraps up our vocabulary
and learning about the words associated
with the seasons okay we're gonna take a
short break here and get into the
reading section next okay welcome back
let's go over the reading passage now as
you know the subject of this lesson is
seasons so in this reading passage first
of all we have to define define we have
to say what is a season and that's what
the first sentence does a season is a
time of year so we define what does
season mean right that's our first
sentence a season is a time of year and
as we saw before the time of the year
three months three months three months
three months a year is twelve months so
a season is a time of a year or a period
of the year there are four different
seasons right we talked about that four
different seasons so this passage is
going to talk about those four different
seasons what they're named and what are
the characteristics of each season most
importantly though every season has
different weather we talked about that
different weather right we saw obviously
in the summer it's very hot winter is
very cold this is all different weather
that's how we know that the seasons are
changing the seasons are changing
because the weather the weather is
changing so with every season has
different weather now we can talk about
also the path
turn the pattern of the seasons is
always the same it's always spring
summer fall winter always in that order
that order doesn't mix up right we don't
have spring winter fall summer no that's
crazy
right it's always the same the pattern
is always the same every year so no
matter what year it is
we know that spring will come first then
summer then fall and then winter into
the next year that is the pattern it's
always the same every year so it's
always the same every year okay of
course we have spring summer fall winter
that always happens that's always the
same doesn't change let's talk about the
different seasons then what are the
characteristics the characteristics or
features of each season I just said a
couple of words there one is a little
bit of a long word character if sticks
what are the characteristics
characteristics is the same as features
features of each season in other words
what can we say about each season how
can we describe each season we're going
to talk about the characteristics or the
features of each season let's start with
spring spring is warm that's a
characteristic or feature warm and
colorful ah warm and colorful are
characteristics or features its those
are things we can use words we can use
to describe something characteristics or
features spring is a warm and colorful
those are adjectives right we can use
these adjectives really are talking
about characteristics or features of
each season in the spring
there are many hours of daylight in the
spring right there are many hours of
daylight not the most but many hours of
daylight remember from our chart we saw
that there are about 12 hours of
daylight in the spring ok we can play
outside sure we can play outside because
it's warm
right and we can enjoy the plant
blossoms right we talked about plants
blooming right flowers bloom in the
spring flowers bloom in the spring and
that's why it's very colorful right
coming back to colorful we have reds we
have whites some flowers are purple some
flowers are blue the grass is growing
it's very green we have a lot of
different colors so that's why spring is
a very colorful season let's move on
what characteristics or features can we
say or describe used to describe summer
right what characteristics does summer
have well in the summer the weather is
similar similar to spring not the same
because in the summer it's hotter it's
not the same as a spring it's similar
right it's still warm
but it's warmer than the spring right so
it's similar but not exactly the same
but it becomes much hotter right it
becomes much hotter that's one main
feature or characteristic of the summer
it's very hot during the summer right
you sweat a lot summer is a season for
swimming at the beach this boy has the
right idea right he's at the beach he's
swimming in the water there looks like
he's standing on the water but he's
swimming he's having a good time in the
beach at the beach at the beach so what
do you do in the summertime does your
family go to the beach do you have fun
at the beach or do you go to a swimming
pool near your house of course you want
to go outside and play but not too much
it's a little hot right but don't worry
you have a lot of hours during the
summer you can also go out in the early
morning or the evening when it's cooler
in the middle of the day it's very hot
okay let's talk about fall what are the
different features or characteristics
about fall well one is that the weather
becomes colder it becomes colder right
summer is over now it's very hot summer
but now the weather is
becoming colder it's becoming colder it
becomes colder in fall there are less
hours of daylight that's another feature
of the fall right less hours of daylight
then in summer so in summer we had a lot
of daylight but now we're getting less
and less hours fewer and fewer hours of
daylight than in the summer time another
feature of fall is that leaves change
color leaves change colors as we can see
this little girl is playing with the
leaves the leaves are many different
colors you know gold brown red yellow
very beautiful colors especially if you
go out in the mountains during the fall
you can see all the beautiful colors we
say that the leaves are changing the
leaves are changing so did you go out in
the fall did you see the changing leaves
I'm gonna go look at the leaves change
color that's very common in the fall
many people go out and do that so leaves
change colors and drop from the trees
drop from trees that's another feature
or characteristic of fall another very
important characteristic is many fruits
and vegetables are ripe ready to eat in
the fall right that's when the farmers
go out in the field and they get that
food and they bring it back and then
they sell it in the supermarket so in
the fall we can see many different types
of fruit that is available of course
modern technology farmers are very good
at making sure fruit is ripe throughout
the year so thank goodness because we
want to eat apples all year round right
we want to have oranges all year round
but usually traditionally in the fall
was when food was ripe fruits and
vegetables and that's when they go went
out in the fields and Gotham so these
are all characteristics about fall we
have one more season to go do you know
what it is that's right it's winter
winter is the
season right that's one very important
feature or characteristic of winter it's
the coldest season of the year in winter
snow falls so snow falls from the sky
right it's not rain anymore it's too
cold right
that liquid turns to a solid now it's
snow and it's falling from the sky we
have to wear our hats and gloves
remember hats and gloves
that's heavy heavy what heavy clothes
those are heavy clothes right heavy
clothes we have to wear our heavy
clothes in the winter hats gloves ski
suits boots those are all heavy clothes
we have to bundle up in the wintertime
every season is different so now we're
coming away from what we're kind of
concluding every season is different as
we have seen in this reading parent
passage so every season is different
every season has different
characteristics and features there are
special things to do in every season
true in the springtime you can go out
and look at all the flowers Wow smell
all the flower blossoms right life is
coming out again enjoy that in the
summertime you can go to the beach it's
a very hot weather right you go swimming
in the fall you can look at the leaves
falling you can gather fruits and
vegetables that are right and in the
winter you can play in the snow okay so
every season there are special things to
do in every season these things you have
to do them in each season don't go
swimming in the winter that's too cold
right you can't go out to your apple
tree and pick apples in the spring there
are no apples there's just flowers on
that tree right the apples have to ripen
and become ready in the fall
okay so special things to do in every
season each season has different things
to do okay now we've come to our reading
skill chart and our reading skill we can
see we have the main idea and the
details so what is the main idea of this
passage the main idea is this sentence
here there are four
or different seasons so there are four
different seasons that's our main idea
right that's like our topic sentence
that's what we're going to talk about in
this passage for different seasons now
that's our main idea we have details to
support that main idea if we say there
are four different seasons we expect
four main details and of course
different seasons what are those four
different details going to be about of
course we're talking about the four
different seasons we can see that we
have spring summer fall and winter those
are our four details that support the
main idea for different seasons okay so
that's a very good organization now in
each description in each detail we have
blanks we have to fill in with these
words at the bottom our words our
coldest warm hotter daylight and right
so how do these words fit into these
details first of all we have spring is a
deep and colorful season so what word
fits in there spring is a coldest season
that doesn't fit grammatically it
doesn't fit either spring is a warm and
colorful season well yes actually that
sounds right and that's what we learned
before spring is a warm and colorful
season it's becoming warm again after
the cold winter there are many hours of
what many hours of coldest no warm we
already talked about so we don't have to
worry about that many hours of hotter
that doesn't sound right many hours of
daylight ah that's it remember we talked
about that before hours of daylight and
by the way that's a good expression to
remember a good grouping when we're
talking about how much daylight is there
in a day we're talking about hours of
daylight hours of daylight it's an
important thing when you study new
vocabulary don't just study the single
word but study words that are associated
words that go with that word and this is
a good example hours of daylight that's
a good way to express that I
yeah how many hours of daylight excuse
me how many hours of daylight are there
in a day in the spring or in the winter
hours of daylight it's a good expression
okay let's move on in the summer the
weather is much what then spring now
look at this much then we're looking for
comparison right we're looking for
comparison in the spring it's warm but
in the summer the weather is much what
cold s that's a comparison but does it
fit here much coldest than spring that
doesn't fit that's not correct much hot
ah ah we're looking for one of these
words right hot
so that's right it's much hotter and
that's true in the spring it's warm but
then the summer it's much hotter right
you sweat a lot right very hot okay in
the fall let's move on in the fall many
fruits and vegetables are what remember
we talked about this before right fruits
and vegetables are ready to eat in the
fall they're ready to eat they are ripe
so if they're ripe they're ready to eat
okay let's move on to winter winter is
the bee season now here we're also
looking for a comparison word right we
talked about this this was a comparison
word but that went up there this one is
also a comparison word when we have est
that means like the most right of all
the seasons which season is the most
cold but do we say most cold no we say
cold esthe we don't say most cold we say
cold essed
winter is the coldest season right it is
colder than fall summer and spring it is
the most cold it is the coldest don't
say most cold say coldest winter is the
coldest season snow falls and we wear
hats and gloves so again we're wearing
our heavy clothes heavy clothes okay I
have to go out of the box hats and
gloves very heavy clothes in the winter
because it's very
cold right it's the coldest season out
of all the seasons it is the coldest
season so we can see our four main
details that support our main idea main
idea there are four different seasons
one two three four and we can fill in
the details even more details about each
major group of the four okay let's move
on let's take a look at the
comprehension questions reading
comprehension so how well do you
remember the passage number one spring
is the season that comes after what okay
so remember we have a cycle sure we many
times we think that spring is like the
first week most people start with spring
spring summer fall winter but remember
the cycle starts again
so after winter it goes back around to
spring and that comes after winter so
spring summer fall winter then back
around to spring so spring is a season
comes after winter because winter is the
usually the last season in our cycle
spring summer fall winter comes back
around to spring so after winter comes
spring again spring is a season that
comes after winter okay so remember it's
a pattern it repeats it's a cycle it
keeps going around and around number two
many fruits are ripe when can we eat
those fruits right those fruits have
been growing they start growing in the
spring the flowers bloom the flowers
change into fruits during the summer
during the summer they're growing but we
can't eat them yet we have to wait until
which season we have to wait until fall
to eat those fruits many fruits are ripe
ready to eat in the fall not in the
winter not in the spring but in the fall
okay let's move on to question number
three we're talking about the hours of
daylight in the spring remember the
expression I taught you in the previous
slide right the hours of daylight
remember that phrase we're talking about
how much daylight how many hours how
long right is the daylight how many
hours
of daylight do we have in a day in the
spring remember it's different for each
season the spring has a certain number
of hours a day summer is different falls
about the same spring and fall are about
the same because you're there in the
middle right summer is on one end
winters on the other end spring and fall
are kind of in the middle they're
transition they're changing they're
halfway between summer and winter so
they're about the same in terms of hours
of daylight remember from our chart we
had about 12 hours of daylight in the
spring for the spring we had 12 hours
right but are more than that in the
winter so we're kind of comparing so in
the winter do you remember we had about
10 hours in about 41 minutes so almost
11 hours but still that's fewer right so
the hours of daylight in spring are more
than right then that in winters 12 is
more than 10 so that's true a is true so
it's probably our right answer is it you
bet it's our right answer but let's look
at B and C just for practice B the hours
of daylight in spring make spring the
best for swimming is spring the best the
best season the number one child qu out
for swimming
no because summer is the hottest that's
the best for swimming so summer is the
best for swimming not spring right okay
C are less than that in winter so the
hours of daylight in spring are less
than that in winter is 12 less than 10
no that's not correct
right so that's just our practice we can
see that a is correct because 12 is more
than 10 okay let's move on to number
four the pattern of the seasons is from
now we're talking about the pattern the
pattern of the seasons in other words
the cycle right what is the order of the
seasons and remember that's a pattern it
repeats again and again so what we're
looking at in a year how did the seasons
fall what is the order of the seasons
what season comes first what season
comes second third and fourth or last
let's take a look in a
summer to fall that's true summer and
then fall that's okay so far and then
spring to winter no okay summer fall
that's true but then spring no then
winter and then spring so a is not
correct right that's not the right order
that's not the correct pattern of the
seasons okay B let's take a look at B
spring to fall so first we have spring
and after spring we have summer not fall
that's incorrect
so obviously B is not right it was just
continued and then summer to winter
again that's not correct either right
it's spring after spring of course is
summer and then summer goes to fall
right so this is obviously incorrect C's
got to be right let's take a look
winter to spring true yeah after winter
we have spring the pattern repeats again
winter to spring and then summer to fall
and then of course means after spring so
spring to summer then fall so first well
we have winter then spring then summer
then fall and that's correct so C of
course is our correct answer this is the
pattern of the seasons winter spring
summer fall of course it doesn't matter
where you start in the pattern most
people we traditionally start with
spring most people think of spring as
the first season but it's okay we can
also start at winter just as long as
we're talking about the pattern don't
break the pattern you can jump in at any
time summer fall winter spring or fall
winter spring summer right it doesn't
matter where you break in where you
start it's the pattern continues the
correct pattern of the seasons is from
you know first season and then don't
break the pattern just keep the pattern
but you can jump in at any time okay
let's take a look at our chart here
again we're talking about the four
seasons here we need to fill in the
proper word according to the pictures
and the description so this is a pretty
easy chart by now I'm sure you'll get
this very easily first of all we have
the weather gets warm people go outside
plants begin to grow right life Springs
out of the ground life Springs out of
the ground of course we're talking about
spring right that's a good way to
remember life Springs out of the ground
right so we have live plants are growing
out of the ground in the next one we see
the boy looks like he's been swimming so
it's got to be warm outside right the
weather gets hot it's not just warm it's
hot people wear light clothes t-shirts
shorts sandals right they're wearing
light clothes because it's so hot
outside plants are growing fruits right
so they the plants bloom in the spring
but during the summer the plants are
growing in their growing fruits what
happens I just said it during the summer
in the summertime the weather gets hot
people wear light clothes and plants are
growing fruits the next season of course
you remember the order of the seasons
you can just fill it in very quickly but
let's go over the next one the weather
gets cool so after the summer the
weather starts to get cool again people
wear heavier clothes start to put on
that jacket start to put on those long
pants right don't wear shorts anymore
start to wear jeans or something like
that leaves change color and drop from
trees that's a very significant or very
important feature of fall right that
season is fall and then the last season
the weather gets cold very cold right
BRR okay people wear very heavy clothes
very heavy clothes heavy clothing you
think about it that is heavy right a big
jacket that's heavy right you're wearing
heavy pants maybe some people wear two
pairs of pants right all that clothing
is heavy right so it's heavy clothes
some plants have no leaves some plants
lose all their leaves of course we're
talking
winter okay this is the this is our
chart for the four seasons and we can
see each season and compare it or
describe it these are the features or
characteristics of each season okay so I
hope you've learned a lot in this lesson
okay and we'll see you guys next time
take care
American Textbook Reading | Science 02