ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 4 People Work
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 11
[From Factory to Youâ€‹](https://youtu.be/XxiZ36do9HY)

Do you know how a soccer ball is made and comes to your home from a factory? 
The soccer ball is made in different steps. 
Using raw materials, the ball is manufactured in the factory.
Workers at the factory must then package the ball. 
The ball is then put in a container to keep it safe. 
Truck drivers transport the soccer ball to markets in trucks. 
Trucks carry goods all over the country. 
Airplanes and ships can carry goods across an ocean. 
We can buy a soccer ball in the market after these steps. 
If we do not want to go to a market, we can order goods using the Internet or our phone.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading we're on lesson 11
right now from factory to you have you
ever wondered about all the things in
your house where did those things come
from how did they get to you well in
this unit you will discover how goods
how those things come to your home from
factories because that's where they are
made many of the goods in your house are
made in factories and how do they get to
your home well that's what we're gonna
talk about in this lesson okay so the
first thing we're going to talk about is
order when you order something you ask
to make or supply goods these people
here are in a restaurant they're making
their order they are ordering their food
that's one way to order something
they're asking the waitress to supply
goods but if you order something on the
internet you're asking maybe a factory
to make the goods ok well they probably
already made them you're just asking
them to supply them to you but
businesses who sell those goods to you
might ask the factory to make those
goods and they're ordering they're
making an order order can be a verb it
can also be a noun for example may I
take your order what is your order
please make an order make an order do
you want to make an order so you make an
order this if you use it this way it's a
noun but we can also use it as a verb to
order I would like to order please what
is your order ok I would like to make an
order so we can use it as a noun or you
can use it as a verb ok package a
package all by the way is also a noun
and a verb you can package something
means that you put it into a box because
you want to send it somewhere so if you
have
product or a good you want to package it
you put it into a box in order to send
it from one place to another by the way
once you put it in a box and you put the
address and everything on it that is a
package so it becomes a noun
right how heavy is your package I have
two packages I want to send that's a
noun but you can say package as a verb
means will you package these products
right that is a verb to put things into
boxes or some containers okay transport
now once you put it in a box right you
need to deliver it from your place to
another place that means that you will
transport it
you're gonna port it to another place
you're gonna port it you're gonna send
it to another place I'm getting ahead of
myself by the way it's interesting to
look at these words trans means across
what does port mean well if you look at
port think about it Airport seaport
right there's different ports ports is
like a place where things come into a
into land or where things gather
airports gather at an airport boats
gather at a port on the coast right so
across ports from one port to another
for example a port in England to a port
in Germany or a port in India across
ports to transport to deliver from one
port to another port it's an interesting
how these words come about transport to
take a thing from one place and ship it
to another and of course a lot of trucks
will be involved in transporting goods
from one place to another factory here
we have Factory a Factory is a place
where workers make Goods using machines
so a factory is a place where workers
people are working and they're using
machines to make their goods because a
lot of these Goods especially the goods
that you have in your house they're not
made by hand they're made by using
Jeanne's especially nowadays because
it's too hard and it takes too long to
make many things by hand machines can
make them quicker and much much more of
them very quickly so usually our goods
are made in factories factories aren't
always nice places right they're kind of
dirty and they're messy and they they
make pollution but it's something that
we have in our modern society it's how
we make goods market a market is a place
where people buy and sell goods there
are many types of markets you know of
course the supermarket supermarket is a
place where you go to buy food it's
called a supermarket because it's so big
and there's so many kinds of foods there
but a supermarket is a typical this is a
typical supermarket in America this is
only one section this is the fruits and
vegetable section of the supermarket
really big and there's a huge selection
of things to buy but markets aren't just
supermarkets there are old traditional
markets where you can go and you can buy
all sorts of things right and there's
many different people in small areas
some people might be selling clothes all
that another person might be selling
fried foods another person might be
selling pillows for you to sleep on and
these are old or traditional markets and
even you if you have some things you
might be able to rent a place at this
market and sell your things we call
those kinds of places flea markets a
flea market is where ordinary people
will go and they'll sell their stuff
like if I have a lot of stuff at my
house I don't want it I want to sell it
I can go to a flea market rent a small
space for a week or two weeks and I can
sell my stuff at the flea market you can
find many interesting and cheap goods at
a flea market okay so that's a market
okay to manufacture manufacture means to
if you want to make something you are
going to manufacture it especially when
you make it in a factory to make large
amounts large amounts of goods in a
factory that's manufacture and
manufacturing right if you make a lot of
buns or bread pieces of bread you're
manufacturing bread if you make a lot of
toys you're manufacturing toys if you're
making engines or automobiles you're
manufacturing cars or engines or
something like that to manufacture
you're using a factory machines to make
large large amounts many of that good
like hundreds thousands of those Goods
okay to step a step is one of the
actions that you must do in an order if
this is your goal here this is your goal
this is where you are here you have to
take steps these are different actions
that you have to take in order to reach
your goal in order to reach your goal
you must take many steps right and this
of course it's not like this you have to
walk up a bar graph to get to your goal
if this is just a representation a
picture you know these steps can
represent many things maybe your goal is
to go to college right your steps are go
to elementary school go to middle school
go to high school take the test study
hard then are applied to college and
then you can get to college these are
the different steps that you take to
reach your goal okay container is our
next word something such as a bowl
bottle or box that can store things so
you want to keep something inside of
something right you want to organize
them or you want to protect them so that
they don't get old or you just want to
put them in a closet you want to stack
them on top of each other you can use a
container to do that containers are
bowls containers are bottles containers
are boxes and they can store
things when factories make certain types
of goods like food for example they will
put the food in a container containers
can be bottles what comes in bottles
well of course many things to drink like
sodas or milk or juice they come in
bottles some juices come in little boxes
some food comes in plastic bowls or
styrofoam bowls right these are all
containers where we store something in
order to use it later
they are containers okay let's take a
look at our chart how goods come to
market come to market means how do they
come to the store where you're going to
buy them how do they get there well
first of all you have to make the goods
then you manufacture them and then you
put them in a container you send them to
the market let's take a look at each
step this is a good example also to a
step our goal is to get it to your house
right or to the customer we need to
start at first step second step third
step fourth step fifth step we reached
our goal okay so let's take a look first
of all we take the material and in this
case our goal is to make a bottle of
milk that's our goal so what is the
material milk we need to get milk from
the cows right got to go out the farm
get many pails or many containers of
milk so we take the milk and we gather
it together that's our material and we
take that material and we manufacture it
in a factory we manufactured you can't
when you get milk you don't get milk
straight from the cow there's certain
things that has to be done to that milk
to make sure that it's still fresh when
you get it in the factory they're making
that milk they're processing that milk
so it's processed milk pasteurized milk
and it gets to your home it's to make
sure that when that milk gets to you
it's fresh and it doesn't make you sick
okay so they put it in a factory the
manufacturing then they packaged it they
put it in these bottles here then they
transport it that's the next step they
put it in a truck and the truck delivers
it to the supermarket
yay and then the mom and the kid are in
the supermarket they're looking at the
different brands of milk maybe one brand
tastes better than the other or one of
brand milk is healthier for you that
another one they choose the milk they
want then the final step is you have
your milk bottle in the customers hand
and that's the goal let's just take a
look at a video this video is actually
not the final step this is in the
manufacturing or actually it's in the
packaging step in this step this is
inside a factory well it looks like oh
looks amazing like a cartoon or
something like a wonderland right all
this milk is going by us but it looks
really amazing doesn't it it looks like
magic a magical place right anyway
what's going on is the milk is going
into the bottles right and then this
machine is putting the caps on the
bottles and the bottles are coming
around they're ready to be put into a
container to be put on a truck and to
shipped to the supermarket so that's
what we can see inside in a milk factory
okay
let's match each word with its
definition we have the words here order
package package transport transport
factory factory market and manufacture
manufacture kind of a big word number
one to make large amounts of goods in
the factory so you want to make a lot of
something large amounts of something in
a factory what are you doing what's the
verb we say to manufacture to
manufacture you make a large amount of
goods in a factory number two to ask to
make or supply goods remember there's
two things you can do one is you can ask
a company or somebody to make a good
that's placing an order or the good is
already made and it's being stored
somewhere you want them to supply it to
you both those ideas you are ordering
for both of those different situations
it's still the same word you are ordered
something so--that's or order number
three to put things into boxes so you
want to put something into a box right
into a some kind of container what do
you want to do and you want to ship it
somewhere else what are you doing it's a
noun and it's a verb but in this case
we're looking for the verb sense of
course you are packaging to package
something so in the video we saw that
the milk is being packaged into a bottle
right it says to put into boxes but it
can also be put into bottles or other
types of containers but usually when we
put things in boxes or packaging it and
we're going to send it in the mail to
somebody else number four a place where
people buy and sell goods so usually
people buy things there
but it's possible that you can sell
there certain types of this thing
you can't sell things there okay well of
course everybody is selling things the
company is selling the goods but most
people are buying the goods most the
customers are buying so a place where
people buy and sell goods is of course
called a market supermarket flea market
old market or traditional market okay
five to take a thing from one place to
another place so I have a package and I
want to take it from point A and deliver
it to point B I want to do what I want
to transport it so to transport means to
take a thing from one place to another
place six a place where workers make
Goods using machines this is usually a
big building lots of machines lots of
workers lots of activity going on and
large amounts of goods are being made
using machines what do we call this
place this place is called a factory
okay so those are our words and
definitions okay so let's look at our
chart now we have kinds of
transportation different styles or
different kinds of transportation we can
see pictures here of different types of
transportation and underneath each we
have a
to show what type of transportation that
is and of course these transportation
types are used to deliver goods from the
factory to the consumer or the customer
over here we have a picture of a flying
vehicle a vehicle that flies through the
air we say it's an airplane okay here we
have a picture of a very very very big
vehicle that moves across the water and
there are many containers on this
vehicle this vehicle is actually really
really huge it's almost like a small
city
you can call of course it's called a
ship ships of course can be very big
they can also be very small but ship is
when we talk about transporting goods
can be very very big by the way ship in
this case is a noun the ship is this
object here but ship is also used as a
verb
how will I ship this how will I ship
this in other words how will you send it
in this case ship means send and it's a
it's an old word of course because a
long time ago the only way to send goods
are to transport goods from one place to
another especially one country to
another was by ship especially when
you're talking about over the ocean and
met far away from Europe to Asia or from
America to Europe or America to Asia the
only way to was but was to ship things
so ship although it's a noun became a
word became a verb to mean to send
things so it's an old or historical note
about the word ship train this is a
train of course a train has many cars
all lined up and connected to each other
and the trains engine is very strong it
pulls all those cars along the track
from one place to another obviously a
train is very useful for transporting
large amounts of goods over land right
over land I mean you could use this here
this is a vehicle that uses four wheels
and an engine
and one person drives it it's a truck
but a truck is only good to send you
know a smaller amount of goods if you
want to send a large amount of goods
it's cheaper to go by train than it is
to go by truck and that's interesting we
use buy how will I ship this by you
we'll ship it by airplane ship it by
ship ship it by train ship it by truck
how will you send it how will you
deliver it how will you transport it all
of those words mean the same thing okay
let's look at the pictures and write the
word that best describes them we have
different vehicles right this vehicle is
a truck
it says wonder on the side wonders for
bread it's a brand name for bread so
this truck is shipping or transporting
bread this is a taxi what does a taxi
transport a taxi transports people right
this is a helicopter it's a good way to
move people from one place to another
especially when there are no roads or
there's lots of mountains or jungle and
it's very difficult to go through the
area and do you don't have an airport
you have just a small place where you
can land this of course as a helicopter
all of these vehicles are types of what
they are all types of transport or
transportation right so we can say this
is a type of transport this is a type of
transport this is a type of transport or
we can say these are types of
transportation this is a type of
transportation this is a type of
transportation you get the idea okay so
you can say transport or transportation
it doesn't matter okay - or false
number one a factory is a place where
people buy and sell goods so if you want
to buy something you go to a factory if
you want to sell it you go to a factory
right no that's not true
a factory is a place where people make
goods right but where do you buy and
sell goods if we just change one word
this word here we can change it to
another word to make the sentence true
do you remember that word its market a
market a market is a place where people
buy and sell goods that's true
but a factory that's false okay number
two a bicycle is a kind of
transportation so we looked at trucks we
looked at trains we looked at taxis what
do all those things have in common they
move people or things from one place to
another does a bicycle do that can a
bicycle move a person or a thing from
one place to another sure you bet that's
true in fact in some places the mail
carriers right people who deliver the
mail they can ride on a bicycle and they
have a basket in the front with the
letters and they can transport
themselves and the letters from house to
house or bicycles can be used for a lot
of different things if you go to the
store you can put your groceries in the
front basket or on your backpack and you
can use your bicycle to go back home so
yes a bicycle is a kind of
transportation kinds of transportation
are just machines that people use to get
from one place to another either people
or objects or both people and objects
okay
three order means to take a thing from
one place to another so if you take a
product from point A and you take it to
point B that means that you are ordering
no that doesn't make sense that's not
right that's false it's not order order
means to ask somebody to make something
or supply something after they made it
or after it's ready to go
they need to deliver it to you they need
to take a thing from one place to
another if we change this word to make
it true what word do we substitute we
can say transport transport transport
means to take a thing from one place to
another that would be ok but not order
it doesn't mean order in that case ok
well that wraps it up for the vocabulary
section stay with us
we'll come back and we'll take a look at
the reading
passage so don't go away okay now we've
come to our reading passage and we're
talking about how goods are sent from a
factory to your home there are many
steps involved okay so let's start off
with the first part of the reading
passage do you know how a soccer ball is
made and comes to your home from a
factory the soccer ball is made in
different steps using raw materials the
ball is manufactured in the factory
workers at the factory must then package
the ball so this is interesting this
reading passage starts off with a
question and it's a good question
because it's something you might wonder
about it's something you might think
about do you know how do you know how
have you ever thought of this have you
ever thought of how a soccer ball is
made one and comes to your home from a
factory so we're thinking about two
things one how is a soccer ball made and
two how does it come to your home from a
factory the soccer ball is made in
different steps there's different steps
involved in this process in this
two-part process use well the first step
is using raw materials
what are raw materials we saw materials
before but what are raw materials raw
materials are materials that we get from
nature they are not changed human beings
did not change those materials for
example raw materials are metals right
for example like gold or silver or iron
or steel or something like that raw
materials we use those raw materials to
make something so using raw materials
the ball is manufactured in the factory
manufactured made in in large amounts
they don't just make one soccer ball
they make a large amount of soccer balls
so they are manufactured in the factory
then once the soccer ball is made the
soccer ball is manufactured workers
people take
those soccer balls and they put them in
boxes they package the ball at the
factory what's next the ball is then
then tells us next step the ball is then
put in a container to keep it safe truck
drivers transport the soccer ball to
markets in trucks trucks carry goods all
over the country airplanes and ships can
carry goods across an ocean so we see
the ball is then put in a container
right the packages are sometimes you
don't want to you don't want the
packaging to rub up against each other
or to tear or to open so what you need
to do is put those packages in a
container like a hard container maybe a
cardboard box or a plastic container so
that the packaging the brand name and
the colors and everything on the
packaging outside the ball is not
damaged you put all that stuff in the
container why to keep it safe to keep it
safe now truck drivers people who drive
trucks they transport transport is a
verb to move from one place to another
or to deliver something from one place
to another truck drivers transport the
soccer ball where to markets how in
trucks because they're truck drivers
okay so they transport the soccer ball
to markets they use trucks to do that
trucks carry goods all over the country
so in a country of course in a factory
if you're selling them in the country
trucks will go out from the factory
they'll drive all over the country
everywhere in the country all over in
the country to all the cities and all
the towns all the stores in the country
now if they're going very far you will
use an airplane or a ship can carry
goods across an ocean
so trucks are good you know if the
distance is not that far or if it's all
on land but it's really far away use an
airplane or if it's across the ocean use
a ship we can also use an airplane but
you can put a lot more good
on a ship than you can on an airplane
okay once they get to the market once
the the truck or the airplane or the
ship is has delivered the goods to the
market we can buy a soccer ball after
these steps we can buy a soccer ball in
the market after these steps the steps
that we just talked about right
manufacturing packaging putting in a
truck or putting in an airplane a ship
and delivering it after those steps we
can buy a soccer ball if we do not want
to go to a market maybe we do not want
to go to a market we want to stay home
we can order goods using the internet or
our phone and that's a convenience of
modern life isn't it you can go on the
computer on the internet and look at the
store's website and say oh I like it I
want to order it when you order it the
store will take your order right two
words two meanings of the word you order
it that's a verb the store will take
your order that's a noun and they will
deliver it to your home and that's what
this man is doing here he's delivering a
package to the woman who lives at her
home she doesn't have to go to the
market she can stay at home it's very
convenient so she ordered the package
and the delivery person will deliver it
to her okay let's take a look at a
reading skill it's sequence sequence
means in order and of course when we're
talking about a step by step process
we're talking about sequence what do you
do first what do you do second third
fourth and so on so what is the sequence
of this process we have step one well a
couple of steps more steps and other
steps these are all steps in the process
we have to fill in blanks in the process
these are the words that we put in the
blanks transport market order package
manufactured let's take a look at these
the ball is what in the factory what do
you do in the factory do you transport
the ball in the factory do you market
the ball do you order it do you package
it or do you men
facture the ball in the factory
obviously the factory is where the balls
are made and large amounts of the balls
are made so they are manufactured in the
factory then after they're manufactured
the workers do what what did they do
with the ball they put it into what
packages so they package the ball
package is a noun and a verb they
package the ball they put it into
packages next truck drivers beep the
ball to market what do truck drivers do
they transport the ball to the market
they deliver the ball to the market from
the factory trucks carry goods all over
the country we buy a soccer ball in the
what where do we go to buy our goods
where do we go of course we go to the
market here we go to the market we can
buy a soccer ball in the market also if
we don't want to go to the market we can
do what we can order we can order goods
using the Internet we don't have to go
to the market we can just use the
internet and the goods will be delivered
to our house ok let's go over the
reading comprehension questions how well
do you remember the reading let's find
out number one workers make goods in a
factory using what two workers use in a
factory to make goods how do workers
make goods in a factory what do they use
do they use containers do they use
machines or do they use manufacture
obviously si is not right because
manufacture means to make goods workers
manufacture goods in a factory using
manufacture no that's going in a circle
right it doesn't make sense so C is
obviously not correct right away do they
use containers to make goods no they put
the goods in containers to store them ok
what they use our machines they use
machines to make goods in a factory ok
number two a soccer ball is made where
in or we could not just wear but in in
different
a soccer ball is made in a market a
package or different steps interesting
these two are places this one is a
process okay so a soccer ball is made in
a market soccer balls are made in
markets no soccer ball is made before it
gets to a market so that's not right a
soccer ball is made in a package you
have to have the package first and you
make the soccer ball inside that package
that's very difficult isn't it and
that's very silly also the soccer ball
is already made and then you put a
package around it okay a soccer ball is
made in different steps this isn't a
place but does it make sense sure
because there are different steps to
making a soccer ball and that's true a
soccer ball is made in different steps
that's correct okay let's look at number
three
how can you buy goods if you do not have
the internet or a phone you don't have
the internet that's terrible okay you
don't have a cell phone oh my gosh are
you living in the modern age of course a
long time ago people didn't have the
Internet and you they had phones but you
know you didn't really call the store to
to have them send the goods that wasn't
a common thing to do so this is before
you're born okay anyway how can you buy
goods if you don't have the internet or
you don't have a phone hey you can go to
a market to buy goods yes a long long
time ago when I was younger I had to go
the market always I couldn't order
things on the internet or the phone
right I had to go to the market it's
horrible it's terrible
I'm just kidding right of course you can
still do that these days but if you
don't want to you can use the internet
or phone to buy or order your goods now
let's just look at B and C for fun B you
can order goods from a truck driver so
you can call hey Joe you're driving your
truck hey can I order something from you
no that's crazy you don't order goods
from a truck driver the truck driver
delivers the goods to you C you can
order goods from a container
right can you call it container hello
container do you hear me
are you there the container will not
answer you you cannot order goods from a
container okay okay number four
truck drivers transport goods from where
to where
right factories to markets using a truck
the homes to factories by truck or sea
markets across the ocean so truck
drivers transport goods from factories
to markets using a truck that sounds
reasonable right they're using a truck
hey they're truck drivers now that's
true truck drivers transport goods from
factories they take the goods from the
factory to the market in order to sell
it and how do they do that they use a
trunk true what about B and C just for
practice B from homes to factories by
truck that's going the wrong way
right they don't take goods from homes
to the factories they take goods from
the factories to the home so that's
obviously incorrect C markets across the
ocean truck drivers transport goods from
markets across the ocean truck drivers
can drive across the ocean hey this is
couldn't cool trucks will sink in the
water
uber uber right they'll go down they'll
sink and they'll be on the bottom of the
ocean and we will never find those goods
again so that is obviously silly okay so
a is factories to markets using a truck
is the correct answer
oh yeah this brings us to our chart
again our chart showing the many many
different steps of how Goods come to
market so we talked about these
different steps
let's review first of all when you want
to make a good you need to use some type
of thing like for example raw raw what
raw material so you get your raw
material that's the first thing that you
do you get that together then what do
you do in the factory you take those
materials or that material and you want
to make large amounts of you're good
right so you want to manufacture those
that good so you make large amounts of
that product
then after you've manufactured the
product you've got it it's ready it's
made you need to do what you need to put
it into something you need to package
that product in this case we're
packaging the product in bottles but it
could be boxes it could be plastic
containers it could be whatever you're
putting you're packaging the product
into some type of container after the
product is packaged right you get them
all together you put them in a box of
course and then usually trucks will do
what trucks will move the goods from
your factory to the market and what do
we say about that we say that it's
transport that is transport the truck
drivers will transport your goods to the
market by using a truck over here this
is in the market right so this is the
market this is where the customers come
to buy the goods and finally what do we
have at the end we have the final
product it's in our home in this case
it's in our refrigerator and it's ready
to drink or to pour over our cereal in
the morning so you know this is just a
type of good any different type of good
and all types of goods follow these
different steps this of course is how
goods come to market from factory to you
so we're talking about how goods are
made in a factory how they're
manufactured then packaged transported
and where you go to buy them of course
you don't always have to go to the
market to buy them you can use the
internet or sometimes you can call the
market and they will transport or
deliver the goods directly to your home
so that's very convenient so if you've
ever wondered where do all these things
come from in your home you have lots of
maybe you have toys in your room you
have furniture in your room your bed has
a cover on it it has a pillow go into
your kitchen open the refrigerator
there's a lot of food in there how do
those things get inside your home well
now you know so I hope you've learned a
lot in this lesson as usual we'll see
you guys next time take care everybody
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02