ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 2 We Are Good Citizens

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 06
[Choosing Community Leadersâ€‹](https://youtu.be/2kx84Ykf-dA)
== Choosing Community Leaders ==
In communities in the United States of America, every adult can choose their leaders . This means only people 18 years or older can vote. In a town or city, people can vote for a mayor. In a state, people vote for a governor.  People choose their leaders in an election. During an election they go to the voting place, and mark their decision on a ballot in the voting booth. These ballots are counted in the election and a new leader is chosen. In America, people vote for new mayors and governors every four years. The leader makes important decisions about the community. So every citizen who is an adult should not miss this chance to vote.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart we're going over unit
six choosing community leaders so we're
talking about being good citizens
remember we have to choose our community
leaders so in this unit you will
discover the process of choosing
community leaders the process the
process means how do we do it right we
can see a little diagram here somebody's
voting right they put in many choices
we'll talk about that in this unit but
this is the process how people choose
their leaders and of course this is a
this is particular for American society
American textbook reading but we're
going to take a look mostly at how
Americans choose their leaders let's
take a look here first of all what is a
leader right if we're talking about how
to choose a leader well first of all we
need to talk about what a leader is a
leader a leader is a person right leader
is a person who is in charge of in
charge of you're in charge of means you
are responsible for you're in charge of
a group the person who is in charge of a
group they're responsible for that group
they lead that group they tell the group
what to do if the group has a problem
they take responsibility they they they
are the ones who take the responsibility
or the blame if something goes wrong
they are the leaders let's take a look
here we have a picture of a leader this
is a politician the politician is
basically supporting our you know
getting to know his voters his voters
are coming out and he's signing things
for them so they want to meet him they
want to meet their leader and of course
this is very typical in America these
people want to meet the leader they want
him to sign something so they can
remember that person or the experience
of having met their Li
so basically this would be an example of
a politician or a political leader in
America now remember I just used that
word politician politician a politician
is a leader in politics right a
community leader politician and this is
an example of a politician now another
type of politician is a mayor a mayor is
the leader of a city or town of course
in politics you have many different
types of leaders you have different
areas right and small areas and big
areas depending on the area that depends
on what exactly we call the leader there
are different words for the leaders
depending on how big of an area are what
type of area or region that person is a
leader for if we're talking about a city
or a town a small city or it could be a
large city but a city is smaller of
course in other regions a city or town
we call that person a mayor okay this is
the mayor of Los Angeles right he's the
mayor of Los Angeles
so each city has a leader they're called
the mayor's the mayor okay when you
choose for the leader in politics in a
democratic country of course what are
you doing you are voting to vote to vote
as a verb means to make a choice so of
course in a democratic country you have
many different choices many people want
to be the leader sometimes usually
there's two at least two but sometimes
you have three four or five you could
have a whole group of people who are
trying to get the same leadership
position and we as citizens have to
choose between them we have to vote so
vote by the way is a verb but vote can
also be a noun right
what was the vote what was the final
vote you could say that what was the
final vote that means what was the final
count right what was the final vote who
got the most votes or you can also use
it that way I got a vote I cast my vote
for somebody you'd also use it in that
way cast your vote which is basically
the same as this vote when you vote you
cast your vote each person has one vote
you cast your vote
that means you vote you record your
decision to put it in a box this is a
simple way and then afterwards they take
all the votes out of the box and they
figure out who won
so vote can be a verb this is what this
girl is doing vote can also be a noun
it's what she's putting in the box this
is a vote okay her vote what was your
vote okay now we have an election when
people vote they have an election you
vote in an election where election is
choosing a leader or leaders by a vote
right by a vote so when you when
everybody gets together and they cast
their votes right they put their votes
in then that is choosing a leader that
we call an election now of course this
is a representation of the American
election in 2008 this is President Obama
and this is Senator John McCain and they
were the two contenders for the election
contenders or opponents contenders
contenders are people who try to win the
vote he was a contender he was a
contender contender contenders are
people who who struggle or fight against
each other in order to win something
contenders aren't just people
politicians but contenders can also be
boxers or sports players people who try
to win something these guys wanted to
win the election
they are contenders and the election of
course is choosing a leader or leaders
by a vote so contenders will have an
election and you will choose one of
those people and that will be the person
who was elected
office okay count of course when you're
voting and you're putting many votes in
a box right afterwards you have to count
those votes count to same numbers one by
one and to know how many there are so of
course we got one two three four five I
am counting I'm saying the numbers one
by one and also after I'm finished
right I'm picking the votes one two
three four after I'm finished I know
what the count is I know how many there
are there are fifty votes for contender
a and there's 40 votes for contender B
okay so that's how what's what we do
when we count the votes we find out who
won the election who won the election
let's count the votes okay an adult what
is an adult an adult is a person who is
fully grown why are we worried about
adults when we're talking about election
because only adults can vote in election
I'm sorry you're too young to vote in
your country's elections but when you
get older when you become an adult then
it's your right it's also your
responsibility to vote in the election
you should vote in election that's what
makes a good citizen right you should
vote in an election okay but adults a
vote in elections now ballot ballot is
another word by the way from vote
remember I taught you guys that vote is
a noun you put your vote you cast your
vote we can also say you cast your
ballot it's another word that means the
same thing
cast your ballot cast a ballot cast your
vote but a ballot here can you can see
that a ballot has many names on them
it's very interesting right we can see
many different names here and a ballot
is just basically a piece of paper on
which you mark your vote again vote here
is used as a noun what your vote right
your choice okay so here we can see this
is a
a ballot looks like for the 2008
presidential election did you know that
there are actually more than just two
people who ran for the president in
America we really only concentrate on
the two most famous people who are
running for election Barack Obama and
John McCain those are the two more most
famous people in the 2008 election but
did you know there were actually other
people running for the president there
was Ralph Nader Bob Barr I never heard
of him
Cynthia McKinley I never heard of that
person and Alan Keyes never heard of
them these two usually only two people
get the most attention because they are
from the major parties the major
political parties but there are other
political parties in America maybe some
people don't know about them because
they're not famous they don't get a lot
of attention but the two main parties
they get all the attention people know
about them Barack Obama and John McCain
were for the 2008 presidential election
but I've heard of Ralph Nader before but
I haven't heard of these three people
before but they're also on the ballot in
the 2008 there are less known candidates
okay we talked about mayor before mayor
is a leader of a town or a city but if
you look at a city you go one region
bigger in America that's County and then
one region bigger than County by the way
I'll write that down for you County
County then you have many counties and
that makes up a state now the leader of
a state is called the governor and you
know him right he's also a famous movie
actor but it's interesting that he also
became the governor of the state of
California the governor is a leader of a
state in the United States okay so we're
talking about the United States there
are many states in the United States
California is one of those states Arnold
Schwarzenegger I'll be back the
Terminator right
the governor of the state of California
that's very interesting career right
from movie actor to governor of course
the US President President Reagan also
did the same thing in the 1980s he was a
famous movie star he became the
president of the United States so it's
not it's sometimes it happens okay
but anyway Arnold Schwarzenegger became
the Governor of California
he's not the governor now but he was for
quite a while and is very famous
governor of the state of California okay
well we're talking about elections right
we've talked about vote we've talked
about election we've talked about ballot
these things are all talking about
making a decision right when you make a
decision a decision is a noun
right a decision is a choice a decision
is basically a choice what do you choose
do you choose yes or do you choose no
it's not just yes/no when you make a
decision about what you want to eat for
lunch right do you want to eat a
sandwich or do you want to eat spaghetti
you make a decision right so it can be
yes/no it can be you have many things
and you choose one of those things you
make a decision about what you want to
do you make a choice a choice you make
you make a decision you make a choice
after thinking carefully so first of all
you think about the choices right you
think about either different people in
an election you think about different
foods you want to eat for lunch you
think about whether you want to agree
with something or disagree with
something you think about it carefully
and then you make a decision and that's
what a decision is okay let's take a
look at our chart here we have an
election election this is the process of
election right the process of choosing
community leaders first of all we need
to make a decision then we go to vote
and then we have our leader let's take a
look at making a decision right by the
way the shine shows Republicans and
Democrats cuts back to that ballot I was
talking about before Barack Obama and
Senator John McCain were the two famous
candidates
the 2008 presidential election John
McCain was there in the Republican Party
Republican Party and Barack Obama was
part of the Democrat Party Democrat so
somebody's a Republican or Democrat
usually that's the decision that
Americans make do they want to vote
Republican or do they want to vote
Democrat and that's a very common
decision that many people make let's
take a look here so we see again
Democrat and Republican so in this case
whoa they voted Democrat then they voted
Republican these are different people
voting right all sorts of different
votes so whoa and we even turn the page
to a different side and there's many
different people who are choosing
they're making a decision they're
casting their vote they're deciding who
they want to vote for like I said before
it's usually Democrat Republican but
there are other choices there are other
parties in America usually Democrats
though we say are they want to change
things they want to make things
different they have different ideas
Republicans usually are more
conservative they want things to stay
the same they're more for traditional
values keeping things the same way
that's the main difference between the
Democrats and the Republicans okay so
after the you made a decision whether
you want to vote Republican or Democrat
then you go to vote and you go to a
voting booth go to a voting booth
usually it's not a box like this you go
into a booth you close the curtain and
then you fill out your ballot and then
you maybe put it in of course nowadays
it's becoming electronic so people will
do it by electronic vote too and it will
punch a ticket or something and then so
they vote then they count the vote and
then a leader is chosen and remember
leaders can be presidents governor's or
mayor's we talked about mayor a a leader
of a city or town we talked about
governor a leader of a stake of course
you already know president president is
a leader of a country okay let's take a
look at a video here
this is a video of Ron Paul now he was a
Republican contender for the
presidential election of course he
didn't get it the Republicans will get
together and they will have many
different candidates yeah I don't want
to interrupt him he's very interesting
but basically he's giving a speech here
Ron Paul is one of probably seven or
eight different contenders who are
trying to get the Republican nomination
right the Republican Party will choose
one person out of seven or eight people
and that will be their person that they
want to be the president Ron Paul was
one of them but this is an example of a
debate or a speech where he is talking
to a group of people he's trying to make
them decide for him he wants their
support he wants them to choose him so
that he wants them to decide or make a
decision to support him and that's what
of course all political leaders do they
make speeches and they try to get the
support of the people they try to get
the votes of the people okay let's take
a look at our word matching exercise
here we need to match each of these
words with a definition here are our
words let's go over them leader leader
mayor mayor vote vote election election
count count and adult adults okay let's
go really what these words mean let's go
over the definitions number one a person
who is in charge of in charge of a group
somebody who is in charge of a group is
somebody who leads a group of course we
call somebody who leads a group we call
that person a leader right a leader is
someone who is in charge of a group
number two a person who is fully grown
not a child a person who is fully grown
they are of Cour
and adult and why are we studying adult
because only adults can vote children
I'm sorry children can't vote yet right
you have to wait until you're an adult
and then you can vote to choose your
leader of the country or the city or the
state okay let's take a look at number
three the leader of a city or a town we
talked about different types of leaders
right actually we have the the name of a
certain type of leader in here do you
see a certain type of leader a leader of
a city or a town in this box you zero in
on mayor you would be correct mayor a
mayor is the leader of a city or a town
let's move on to number four to make a
choice now remember when you have some
different options you can say yes or no
or you have many different people you
can choose which person you want to be
your leader what are you doing you're
making a choice when you make a choice
what are you doing you are of course
voting you vote to make a choice you
vote okay so you can vote yes you can
vote no when you choose between a bunch
of people to be your leader then you are
making a choice you are voting okay
number five choosing a leader or leaders
by a vote so when you have a vote when
you hold a vote and many people come
together and they cast their votes or
they cast their balance what do we call
that
event it's a certain event isn't it what
do we call that event we call that event
and election so it's called an election
number six to say numbers one by one one
two three four and to know how many
there are so you're you're saying
numbers one by one because you want to
know how many total you have what are
you doing you are counting so you want
to know how many total you have you
count one starting on one going all the
way up to however many you need right
and that's how you count and then you
figure out how many you have especially
how many votes did one person get as
opposed to another person and that's how
a leader is chosen the person with the
most votes is
chosen as the leader you have to count
those votes okay let's take a look here
at a chart now this is particular to the
United States right we've been talking
mostly about elections and making
decisions for leaders and most of what
we've been talking about is particular
to the United States when we take a look
at the United States we can see a couple
of fun facts on the bottom one the
United States has 50 states and we see a
state has many cities and towns so
basically what this is doing it's going
from the very wide the very big region
the whole country and it's going down to
a smaller region and a much smaller area
so we have the United States we have a
state we have a city or town let's take
a look at this video by the way there
are 50 states as it says down here if
you look at all these divisions there
are 50 states
these are 48 states up here 48 states
right here they're all together they're
all connected these two states 1 & 2 are
not connected they're away or apart from
the rest of the 48 states Alaska of
course is up here and Hawaii way over
here it's off this chart right it's out
in the Pacific Ocean but these are the
other two states that are not connected
to the lower 48 we say these are the
lower 48 lower 48 lower because Alaska
is north
okay lower 48 but these are all states
let's take a look at a video now this of
course is America like I said before
here's Alaska here's Hawaii of course
they're put down here they're not really
here right they're over here and up here
respectively but this is a chart of the
United States of America the country and
if we take a look at the chart here we
can see we can outline one state and
bring it up so we can see one state here
and this of course is the state of
California and there's a couple of
islands here that are also part state of
California okay so that's interesting we
saw that diagram they singled it out
they zoomed in right on the state so
basically what we start off with we
start off with a very big region the
United States right and then we singled
out to cow
fornia right but we can go one more very
small Indian region right so we're
talking about size this is the biggest
size smaller size is a state and the
smallest size here we have a city city
or town okay and by the way this is a
city of Los Angeles you've probably
heard of it it's a very famous city it's
right about there
in California well this pen isn't very
close but anyway it's about right there
in California so we start out really far
we zoomed in on California and then we
zoomed in on a city in California now
when we talk about these different
regions we can talk about the leaders of
these different regions of course the
city or town we have a mayor here we
have the governor and over here we have
what is the leader of a country do you
remember that's right a president
president dent so the president so the
leader of a country is a president the
leader of a state is a governor and the
leader of a city or town is a mayor okay
so let's move on and now we have a
question I hope you paid attention to
the last slide okay right the correct
type of leader for each picture we just
covered this so this should be easy now
let's take a look at our pictures one
two and three we have pictures showing
the different regions we just talked
about
number one is Georgia by the way Georgia
is a state it's a state over here in the
east coast of America southern east
coast of America that is a state what do
what did I just say the leader of a
state is the leader of a state is a
governor so a governor is the leader of
a state that's picture number one
picture number two we have the whole
country we have 50 states the lower 48
Alaska and Hawaii included with the
lower 48 so this is the entire country
of America do you remember the leader of
the country of a the leader of a country
we call that person a president
is not just of America many countries
have presidents right Korea has a
president so the leader of a country is
called a president not all countries
call their leaders presidents some
countries call them different names but
for America Korea many other countries
in the world president is a very common
name for the leader of the country over
here this is a the smallest unit or the
smallest region of our three pictures it
is a city or a town very beautiful
actually by the way it's very nicely
reflected in the in the water or the
lake or the sea that is next to you but
what is the leader of a city or town
what do we call that person we call that
person a mayor
okay so we have governor for a state
president for a country mayor for a city
okay let's look at our true/false
questions here we have three questions
now we need to determine whether they
are true or false actually three
statements right so number one a ballot
means choosing a leader or leaders by a
vote does that sound right it sounds a
little strange right because a ballot a
ballot remember is the piece of paper
where you choose somebody so ballot is a
piece of paper it's not an event like
choosing a leader or leaders by a vote
that's an event what is the event that
means you choose a leader or leaders by
vote what is that event that would be an
election so this is not true we have to
change if we change ballot to election
and if we change of course if we change
to election we have to put an right and
election an election means choosing a
leader or leaders by vote that would be
true but we have to change the sentence
so the sentence is false okay
number two a mayor now we're coming back
to what we talked about right leaders of
different places a mayor is the leader
of a state in the United States so think
about that remember we talked about
cities states and countries and we
talked about the leaders for each is a
mayor the leader of a stay
no that's not right that's false right
what is the leader of a state do you
remember of course it is governor so a
governor a governor is the leader of a
state in the United States again we'd
have to change the sentence so that's
false okay number three a decision means
a choice you make after thinking
carefully so a decision is a choice
right especially after you think
carefully does that sound right
absolutely that is correct is true a
decision is a choice
you make after thinking carefully okay
well that wraps up the vocabulary
section for this unit let's take a short
break we'll come back and take a look at
the reading okay welcome back to the
reading section we're of course talking
about the process of choosing a leader
so the passage is going to talk about
you know how do we choose leaders in our
communities whether we live in a city
state or a country okay in communities
in the United States of America that's
where we're focusing on every adult can
choose their leaders so we're focusing
in on the United States of America
that's the focus or that's where we're
describing the process we're using that
country as an example in communities in
the United States of America every adult
remember I talked about that adults can
vote I'm sorry children can't vote but
adults vote adults can choose their
leaders okay adults can choose the
leaders what does that mean
this means what does it mean that every
adult this means only people 18 years or
older can vote why because people who
are 18 years or older they are adults
right adults are fully grown people
18 years or older when you become 18
years old in America you now have the
right to vote you can choose your leader
so that's what it means if and that's a
good expression by the way this means so
if you make a statement
every
dolt can choose their leader what does
that mean this means okay this means
only people 18 years or older can vote
use this it's much better to use this
than it's because we're referring back
to a concept or an idea it's better to
use this don't use it means say this
means okay in a town or city people can
vote for a mayor right we talked about
that town or a city the leader of a town
or a city is a mayor okay so in this
community in this community because
we're talking about communities in
communities in the United States a town
or city is a community and the leader of
a town or a city is a mayor people can
vote for a mayor another type of
community is a state in a state people
vote for a governor so a state is
another type of community people can
vote for a governor a governor is a
leader of a state okay so we have two
examples they're continuing on we can
see people choose their leaders in an
election so these events right these
things that happen when people get
together they cast their vote they cast
their ballots that event is called an
election during an election during an
event during an election they go to the
voting place and mark their decision on
a ballot in the voting booth okay long
sentence right so basically during
during means during the time or the time
that something is happening usually an
event so an event takes place over time
and inside of that time during that time
during an election they go to the voting
place the voting place can be you know
different places schools libraries
community halls different places are
used for voting places they mark their
decision mark their decision remember
decision is a choice on a ballot ballot
is the piece of paper that people mark
in the voting booth
talk about booth before but booth is
basically a place where you walk into
it's a small temporary usually temporary
like room you pull a curtain across you
step inside you pull the curtain back
and you mark your ballot and then you
cast your ballot and this girl it's
interesting because she's not an adult
but I think what she's doing she's
voting in a school election you can
probably vote in your school election
for your school presidents and your
school leaders but you can't vote in the
city of the state or the presidential
election the national election but
anyway she's casting her ballot she's
putting her vote into the box right
she's casting her ballot okay so people
will do this and they will go into the
voting booth and they will mark their
ballots now afterwards after everybody
has voted after the election is finished
these ballots are counted in the
election and a new leader is chosen in
America people vote for new mayors and
governors every four years okay so what
is this what are we talking about here
so the ballots are counted right we
talked about counted one two three four
people go and count the ballots it's a
big job a lot of people are necessary to
count all the ballots in the election a
new leader is chosen because after you
count you know which contenders got the
most votes the person with the most vote
that is the new leader that person is
the new leader in America of course
different countries have different time
periods in America people vote for new
mayors and governors every four years so
a term this by the way is a term a term
of office a term of office so mayors and
governors have a four-year term of
office when they are elected they are
only a mayor or a governor for four
years after four years they have to run
for election again they might lose but
they might win
Mayers can be mayor's for a very long
time governors can be governor's for a
long time by the way the president in
America also has just a four-year term
but a president can only be elected
twice so a president and American on't
can only be present for eight years at a
time if he or she wins the re-election
okay so anyway people vote for new
mayors and governors every four years
after four years is a new election the
leader makes important decisions so just
like people citizens make a decision to
vote for a leader then the leader makes
important decisions about the community
right that's how we choose what we want
to happen in the community the leader
tells us before the election what he or
she will do we decide okay we want them
to do that then the leader should do
those things and that's how we
participate in changing our community or
making our community a good place to
live so therefore every citizen who is
an adult should not miss should not miss
this chance to vote voting is a chance
it's a right it's a privilege really
adults don't have to vote right nobody's
forcing them to vote but because adults
are can vote they can make changes to
their community they can choose the
leaders who will make decisions about
their community they should not miss
that chance to vote okay
let's take a look at a video here this
video is about voting right vote you
should vote right here's the ballot box
somebody comes along they put their vote
into the ballot box and then that will
be the election okay so that wraps up
kind of the reading section right there
we've seen the process of voting right
and we've seen a couple of important
concepts about you know mayors and
governors are elected for only four
years also presidents the President of
the United States is elected for four
years all adults should vote okay
well let's move on to our reading skill
chart main idea and details what is the
main idea of the reading passage every
adult can choose their leaders that's
the main idea every adult right people
who are 18 years or older they can
choose their leaders now what's the
details what are the supporting details
we have four supporting details to this
main idea we need to fill in the blanks
in each of the four details our blanks
the words to fill in the blanks our
decision election governor ballot and
mayor so let's take a look at the first
detail people vote for a beep in a town
or city those are our key words because
what are we looking for in a town or
city what type of leader leads a town or
city which one of these words here if
you choose Oh over here we see mayor
that's right that fits people vote for a
mayor in a town or a city right so when
you're looking for the leader of your
town or city you vote for a mayor the
second detail now people vote for a beep
almost the same as a but now we're
talking about a state not town or city
we're talking about a state so a mayor
is a leader of a town or city who is the
leader of a state which word fits in
here if you choose governor that would
be correct people choose a people vote
for a governor in a state okay good so
we got mayor and governor actually got
there are two types of leaders here
they're out of the way now we're looking
at different words people choose their
leaders in a what or an what's in a
decision in an election or a ballot
which sounds right if you chose election
that would be true remember election is
the event when people choose their
leaders when people get together they
choose their leaders that is an election
oh yeah we have two blanks in the last
detail people mark their beep on a beep
okay we have two words ballot and
decision so remember ballot is the piece
of paper and you make or mark your
decision on
ballot okay so you mark your decision
you think about it carefully you make
your choice you mark a decision on the
piece of paper that is the ballot people
mark their decision on a balance okay
good let's move on let's go over there
reading comprehension questions number
one every what can choose their leader
so every what can choose their leader we
have choices a B or C every president
every ballot every adult well right away
we can see ballot doesn't make sense
because ballot is a thing things can't
choose their leaders president and adult
are people people can choose their
leaders but what kind of people choose
their leaders do presidents choose their
leaders the president is the leader of
the country there's really nobody higher
than a president in in politics right
there the top so they don't choose their
leaders that would be strange adult well
adult is a common citizen everybody
anybody who is 18 years or older in a
nation well yeah sure they can choose
their leader so adults choose their
leaders number two in a beep and we can
see different types of things here state
election state mayor state count in a
beep people vote for a governor so when
do people vote for a governor this
question is like when do people vote for
a governor in a state election in a
state mayor in a state count well only
one of these things is an event right
this is an event in a state election
people vote for a governor not in a
state mayor that doesn't make sense a
mayor is not an event you don't vote for
another person in another person right
mayor's a person that doesn't make sense
that's silly see in a state count
account is not an event right that's
just something that you do to figure out
how many of something you have so that
doesn't make sense ok let's move on to
number three ballots are counted in an
election and then we see and but in
let's pay attention to those words there
ballots are counted in an election and a
new leader is named so what an means is
that both are chuh ballots are counted
in an election true and a new leader is
named does that sound correct
that does sound correct doesn't it
that's the answer because first you have
to count the ballots and once you know
what the count is then you know who the
leader is so then the leader is chosen
let's look at B and C for practice but a
leader chooses the new leader that
doesn't make any sense right why would
you have ballots if a leader is gonna
choose the new leader that doesn't make
sense
see and the community is chosen the
community is chosen nobody chooses the
community the community is already there
right so that doesn't make sense ok
number 4 a mayor is the leader of a town
or city that's true a mayor is the
leader of a town or city and then we see
president mayor governor aha so we're
gonna look for something that's also
true right because and and and means
something else is true right this is
true what else is true a mayor is the
leader of a town or city and a president
is the leader of a state is a president
the leader of a state no a president is
not the leader of a state that's not
true so that's not the answer and the
mayor is elected by the president the
mayor is elected by the president if the
president elected the mayors he would be
so busy all year round cuz there's so
many cities how could he elect all those
mayors that doesn't make any sense right
he is not correct and a governor is the
leader of a state is a governor the
leader of a state absolutely that is the
correct answer right a mayor is the
leader of a town or city and a governor
is a leader of a state that's true okay
let's move on to our chart that we saw
before this chart shows the process of
choosing community leaders we have
election here so what we need to do is
figure out what is the process is
like chronological or time order right
what's first what's next what's final
okay over here we have you can see there
are different choices to be made you can
vote Republican or you can vote Democrat
when you do that what are you doing you
are making a decision so you have to
make a decision am I going to vote
Democrat or am I going to vote
Republican what am I going to do make a
decision after a person an adult has
made their decision what do they do they
go and they vote they cast their vote in
an election so these people are voting
okay now after the votes are counted
what happens after the votes are counted
what can you imagine you can imagine
that the leaders are chosen leaders are
chosen and what kind of leaders do we
have of course we have a president who
is the leader of a country
what is the leader of a state a governor
and what is the leader of a city or a
town a mayor so leaders are chosen then
these are three types of leaders these
are three examples of leaders so
basically this chart is going over what
we learned in this unit we've talked
about the process of choosing community
leaders you have to make a decision
right there are not just by the way
there's not just remember there's not
just two political parties in America
there's lots but the main two the ones
that get the most attention
Republicans and Democrats you have to
decide between the two which one will
you vote for when you made your decision
then you go and vote but only adults
vote right sorry only adults 18 years or
older they vote after the vote there's a
count and the leader is chosen and
there's many different types of leaders
kind of an interesting process kind of a
long process but it's an it's a very
important process and all adults and
democratic countries go through this
process to choose their leaders it's a
very important process it's what helps
make us a Democratic Society it helps us
choose what we want for our communities
and it's a very important decision to
make anyway we'll wrap it up here we'll
see you guys next time hope you've
learned a lot
in this lesson take care everybody
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01