ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 2 We Are Good Citizens
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 05
[The Pledge of Allegianceâ€‹](https://youtu.be/DeTuCKeJyJk)

There are many ways that people can show respect for someone or something. 
One way is for people to give allegiance to someone or something. 
When people give allegiance, they make a promise to honor and be faithful to someone or something. The Pledge of
Allegiance is a promise to honor the American flag and the United States of America. 
The American flag stands for the republic of the United States of America. 
Every morning students face the flag and say the Pledge of Allegiance.
People also do it before sports or government events begin. 
They show thanks for living in a community with liberty and justice .


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to the
American textbook reading series were on
lesson five the Pledge of Allegiance oh
and I'm Brian Stewart by the way I
almost forgot okay we're a lesson five
the Pledge of Allegiance the pledge of
allegiance is what this girl is doing
she's of course American many American
schoolchildren say the Pledge of
Allegiance so in this unit you will
discover the Pledge of Allegiance and
the flag of the United States the US so
this girl is pledging allegiance to the
flag of the United States let's take a
look at the words we need to learn to
talk about these ideas first of all of
course is pledge we said the Pledge of
Allegiance what is a pledge a pledge is
a promise it's the words that you use to
promise that you will do something a
pledge is very similar to a promise
usually that when people say that they
promise to do something and it's very
formal it's a very solemn or very
important promise they usually do
something like this right I promise I
will do it or they do this when they
pledge allegiance so it's a very
important or very a solemn solemn means
important or very formal type of promise
that you make and that's a pledge Oh
what is allegiance we're time a Pledge
of Allegiance allegiance means to be
faithful to someone or some thing so of
course we see a soldier here wrapped
himself in the flag right very patriotic
allegiance means to be faithful to
something in other words that you will
always support something you will always
do something your actions will be to
help or to support someone or something
else people can say where is your
allegiance or where does your allegiance
lie in other words are you is your
allegiance to your country is your
allegiance to your family or is your
allegiance just to yourself if your
allegiance is just to yourself that
person is selfish they only are faithful
to themselves but if their allegiances
to their family that means that they
want to support and they want to help
their family if their allegiance is to
their country that means that they want
to support and they want to help their
country so that's what allegiance is
it's being faithful helping someone or
supporting someone or something okay
flag now you pledge allegiance to a flag
it sounds like an odd idea a flag is
just a piece of cloth right but a flag
is a symbol a flag is a piece of cloth
that is the symbol of a group
organization or country so a flag is
more than just a piece of cloth it's a
symbol it symbolizes that country and a
flag symbolizes not just the country but
the ideals of the country or group or
organization because groups can have
flags organizations can have flags of
course sports teams have their own flags
but especially countries we're talking
about pledge of allegiance to the flag
means that you're promising to be
faithful not to a piece of cloth but to
the ideas that that piece of cloth
symbolize what are the ideas that the
American flag symbolizes of course
democracy helping other people being an
American citizen supporting your country
those are the ideas that this piece of
cloth symbolizes that's what the
American flag symbolizes of course the
Korean flag also symbolizes many of the
same things for Koreans okay our next
word is stand for so we just looked at
the word flag
and it symbolizes something symbolize
and stand for is the same thing stand
for means to sim bowl lies right symbol
is a noun it's a thing symbolize means
to stand for that idea the symbol stands
for another idea to stand for to mean
something so what are we talking about
what things stand for other things
usually symbols like we use the example
of the flag the flag when you see the
flag it means something to you but it's
not just flags that are symbols many
things can be symbols pictures letters
numbers are all symbols if we see this
picture a white dove carrying an olive
branch if we see this symbol or this
picture branch olive branch that is a
symbol for peace this picture stands for
peace by the way this is a very very old
symbol going back to Greece ancient
Greece okay this is a very old symbol a
white dove carrying an olive branch in
its mouth that's a symbol of peace it
stands for peace so what does a symbol
stand for what does it mean honor honor
is a very important word of course when
you're talking about promises and you're
talking about being faithful to a
certain amount of ideas or a certain
group or a certain country honor is very
important honor means to do something to
show respect when you honor something or
someone you're showing respect for
someone or something these soldiers of
course soldiers have a very high code of
honor they they believe in honor very
much honor is very important to soldiers
and especially they show honor to their
nations flag let's take a look here now
these soldiers are
very formal they're very strict in how
they behave they of course are showing
honor they're doing a rifle drill it's
part of the way to honor or to pay
respect to their country and also to
their fellow soldiers who may have died
in wartime this is a memorial this
actually is a grave of I believe it's
the Unknown Soldier in Washington DC
it's a grave where the remains of the
soldier who was in here they don't know
who he is he symbolizes those remains
symbolize all American soldiers who died
in wars in various places especially
those soldiers who've died and the
remains of the bodies could not be found
this symbolizes all of those men and
women and the soldier's honor this
memorial to show their respect for their
fallen comrades for their fallen fellow
soldiers who have fallen in war so you
show respect are you show honor to
symbols or national monuments you also
honor your flag okay Liberty Liberty is
an ideal a very important ideal in
America the flag the American flag
stands for Liberty Liberty means having
the right to be free from any control
the important thing about America and
the important thing about the United
States history is that they wanted to be
free from a king they wanted to have
their own government to have their own
free government so that each person
could feel free from government control
that the government didn't control them
that they were the government they
controlled their own lives they
controlled their own societies and if
you do that then you have Liberty just
like this bird can fly where it wants to
right it has Liberty it's free of course
no society is completely free but if you
live in a society where there's not a
king
or a queen or a dictator telling you
what you must do or where you have to
live or how you must think then you have
Liberty and everybody should have
Liberty everybody should be free from
those types of government controls
that's a very important part about
America it's what the American flag
stands for it stands for liberty
it stands for justice justice means
treating people equally and fairly now
that's the ideal right it doesn't always
happen that way but that's the ideal
justice means that you use the law to
treat everybody equally everybody should
be equal
everybody should have the same fair
chance in life that is justice if people
do not have the same chances or they are
not being treated equally then there is
no justice okay justice means everybody
should be equal everybody should be fair
that's what justice means Republic now
it's interesting to think about this
America people say you know it's a
democracy it is a democracy but the form
of government is a republic a republic
is a country where leaders are chosen by
a vote a true democracy is where each
person can decide can participate
directly in making laws but it's
impractical because think about that
there's like 300 350 million people in
America you can't get that many people
together to vote on a law that would
meet chaos it would be crazy right the
too many people say no I think this way
I think this way so in other words what
they have to do is many people will
choose one person to represent them so
one state right will have two three four
maybe several leaders that are chosen
from that state to go to the government
and make those decisions for them that's
why we have elected officials that's why
we have politicians politicians are
leaders we choose them by voting for
them and we choose them every four years
in America
ah and they represent us and that system
of government is called a republic okay
it's not a true democracy where every
person this is involved in every
decision that would be crazy it would be
too chaotic you can't control that so we
have a republic where people are chosen
by votes okay
indivisible that's one of the words in
the Pledge of Allegiance indivisible
means cannot be separated cannot be
separated and that's an important point
because in some parts are sometimes of
American history there have been times
when some states tried to separate from
the nation of famous example as a civil
war when the South tried to separate
itself from the north but there was a
war fought about that of course and the
North won the South stayed together in
part of one nation so the nation America
is indivisible it means that no state
can go off and make its own country or
its own laws every every state or every
region in America is part of the whole
they're all in it together so there's a
couple of different ideas indivisible in
means not divisible means to divide are
able to divide whoops divide well what's
wrong divide not able to divide not able
to divide cannot be separated you can't
split America up into different groups
it's one nation that's very important
okay so the Pledge of Allegiance what is
the Pledge of Allegiance every school
person every school student young school
student in America knows the Pledge of
Allegiance because we remember this
because we've every day in some schools
when I was a student I'm not sure what
they do nowadays but I'm pretty sure
it's the same every day students will
stand up there's a flag in the classroom
and not in every class but in the first
class of the day students will stand up
and they will put their right hand not
left hand there our right hand over
their hearts as a symbol of their
faithfulness and they will pledge
allegiance to the flag and it goes like
this I pledge allegiance to the flag of
the United States of America one nation
indivisible under God with liberty and
justice for all and that is the Pledge
of Allegiance I haven't said that for a
long time because I've been living in
Korea and I don't normally say that even
if I go back to America but you can see
I remember it many many years ago
because every schoolchildren says it so
often and it's also not just said in
school it's also said before any
sporting game like if you go to a
baseball game in America before the game
starts everybody stands up put the hand
over the heart and say the Pledge of
Allegiance of course if you're not an
American citizen you don't have to do
this okay but American citizens should
do it and if somebody doesn't do it then
other people look at them say what's
wrong with that person okay why don't
they say it aren't they American okay so
this is the Pledge of Allegiance
okay now we've come to our word matching
exercise we have the words we're going
to match them to the definitions let's
take a look pledge allegiance allegiance
it's a difficult word flag that's easy
stand for stand for honor honor and
Liberty Liberty let's see how these how
we can match these words to their proper
definition let's take a look here number
one to mean something so if you look at
something and it means something else
like for example a picture means
something okay a flag a piece of cloth
means something a number or a letter
means something we can say it symbolizes
that thing or another word for symbolize
we learned is stand for it stands for
something else so the flag stands for
justice and liberty for example to the
word or words of promise when you make a
promise to something and you say those
words of promise of the promise that
you're making what is that
that of course is pledge you're pledging
something you're promising something so
remember the words that you use to
promise something I promise I will do it
you're making a pledge we say it's a
pledge you give a pledge or you make a
pledge you give a pledge to someone or
something or you make a pledge to
someone or something
it's also used as a verb to pledge so a
pledge or to pledge it's used in both
ways number three being faithful to
someone or something if you are faithful
to your family you are showing what if
you are faithful to your country you are
showing what what is it it of course is
allegiance you are showing your
allegiance if you are being faithful to
someone or something you're showing your
allegiance to that person or thing
number four
having the right to be free having the
right to be free from any control you
have the right to be free from any
control especially government control
now be careful it doesn't mean you have
the right to be free from your parents
control okay I'm sorry but you have to
be an adult before you can have the
right to be free from your parents
control and you know any control it
sounds wow really free but of course we
do have controls in society we have laws
so it doesn't mean that it just means
that you have the right to do what you
want to do in terms of you can move
where you want to move you can get a job
what job do you want you have the right
to try to get a job in any area that you
want you have the right to move around
to go places to think a certain way to
say certain things these are your
freedoms that is your what it is your
Liberty you have the
Liberty to do those things and if you
live in a free country in a democratic
country you have the Liberty to do these
things
number-5 to do something to show respect
for someone or something so if you're
going to show respect for someone or
something what are you doing you are
showing or you are honoring that thing
you honor the flag you honor your
parents you honor in your country you
honor certain monuments there might be
statues or there might be certain places
that are important to your country's
history and you honor those places you
show respect six a piece of cloth a
piece of cloth that is the symbol of a
group an organization and especially a
country every country has one of these
it's a piece of cloth with a certain
pattern on it a certain design and it
symbolizes that country but of course
organizations for example sports teams
usually have one of these what is it of
course it's called a flag so a flag is a
piece of cloth that is symbolizes or
stands for a group and organization and
especially a country okay so now here
we've got our chart our example of the
flag of the United States so of course
the unit we're talking about the Pledge
of Allegiance we pledge allegiance to
the flag so it's important to talk about
the flag of the United States what is it
what does the design of the flag mean
let's talk about that a little bit first
of all we can see the flag of the United
States we see a good picture here hey
remember I told you before at the
beginning of every game we say the
Pledge of Allegiance this is a football
game all the cheerleaders are standing
up here there are some soldiers who are
visiting and of course TV crews looks
like a professional football game
everybody's standing up and pledging
allegiance to the flag this happens at
the beginning of every sports event in
America so the national flag
we look at the flag of course we have an
area of blue with many stars on it and
we have an area of red and white stripes
so the national flag of America is
called the Stars and Stripes because
there are many stars and there are many
stripes also it's called the
star-spangled banner' star-spangled
means that there are many stars on it
banner is another word for flag is that
okay yeah that's okay flag flag is the
same as banner a banner is a big sign or
a big piece of cloth and of course a
flag is a big symbol it's like a sign
it's a big piece of cloth so a banner
can also be used to describe a flag so
the Stars and Stripes is a very common
way to call the American flag also the
star-spangled banner is also another
common way to describe the American flag
to names for the American flag let's
talk about the Stars the 50 stars I said
that this area here right you can count
these stars if you counted them I'm not
going to that's gonna take too long but
if you counted these stars you would
find that there are 50 stars on the flag
why 50 because there are 50 states right
there are 50 states 48 states are all
together in the lower we call the lower
48 but they're all connected they're all
together and then there's two states
that are separate one is Alaska one is
Hawaii out in the middle of the Pacific
Ocean so 50 states each star symbolizes
or stands for a different state now
think about that in the history of
America there weren't always 50 stars on
the flag sometimes there were 13 maybe
one time there was 20 or 30 three stars
kept being added as new states came into
the country as new states were added to
America as people kept moving west
okay the 13 stripes well we've talked
about the Stars but what about the
stripes right what about these things
here the stripes stand
for the first 13 states
the first 13 states are the 13 colonies
England or Great Britain had colonies
along the eastern part of America and
each they'd split it up into 13
different regions when America became
independent when it became the United
States of America it only had 13 states
and so we have 13 stripes red and white
to symbolize or stand for those states
so basically the Stars and the stripes
they all stand for States the stripes
are for the original or first thirteen
states and the Stars are for all of the
states and that's the idea of the
American flag and by the way very
important colors red white and blue when
we say red white and blue we of course
are talking about the American flag
another way to describe it is the old
red white and blue by the way red white
blue are also the colors of the British
flag so you know the Americans they
didn't want it to break completely away
from the mother country right so they
use the same colors but they just made a
different design okay we've come to our
mini-quiz here we see this picture here
we see this question we have to answer
the question the quest the answer has a
blank so the question is what is the
student doing in the picture we can see
here there it's the same girl we saw at
the beginning of the lesson and I told
you many times to do this you put your
right hand over your heart and you look
at the flag and what are you doing you
she is saying she is saying the Pledge
of Allegiance the promise of
faithfulness to her flag which
symbolizes her country
so she's pledging allegiance she is
saying the Pledge of Allegiance okay
true or false let's take a look at these
sentences allegiance we talked about
this word right here allegiance means
what does allegiance mean allegiance
means treating people equally and fairly
is that right allegiance means treating
people equally and fairly no that's
false isn't it because allegiance means
being faithful to somebody or someone it
doesn't mean being treating them equally
or fairly what means treating people
equally and fairly that's another word
that we studied not allegiance but you
remember it starts with a J that's right
it's justice justice means treating
people equally and fairly that's justice
so I have to change it so that's false
the national flag of America is called
the star-spangled banner remember we
talked about different names for the
flag we learned two names and I also
told you another one based on the colors
the old red white and blue but is
another name for the flag the
star-spangled banner is that true yeah
that's true that is one of the many
names or nicknames that we call the
American flag the star-spangled banner
another one the Stars and Stripes
another one the old red white and blue
okay number three the Pledge of
Allegiance is a promise yes it is it is
a pledge it is a promise what is it a
promise to do to honor the flag and the
country is that true absolutely that's
true the Pledge of Allegiance
it's a promise to honor to be faithful
to the flag and the country to support
to help to show respect to honor the
flag and the country so that is true so
number three is true as well okay that
wraps it up for the vocabulary section
let's take a short break and look at the
reading section okay welcome back let's
go over the reading passage together now
sometimes when we are writing about a
difficult idea or a very complex idea
like for example the Pledge of
Allegiance it's important that we
sometimes start off in a very general
way and we get more and more specific
and that's what this reading passage is
doing the first sentence is the
are many ways that people can show
respect for someone or something that's
a very general statement right we're
saying there are many ways that's very
general lots of different ways that
people that people can show respect for
so there are different ways that you can
show respect for someone or some thing
it's a very general statement now we're
getting a little more specific the next
sentence is a little more specific or
narrow in our focus one way one way
before we talked about many ways now we
say one way so let's be more specific
one way is for people to give give
allegiance to someone or something so
now our next sentence is getting more
specific there are many ways one way is
to give allegiance to something that's
one way to show respect for when people
give Allegiance they make a promise to
honor and be faithful to someone or
something so this sentence here starting
here and going down here is defining
what is allegiance when people give
allegiance they make a promise when you
give allegiance you make a promise a
promise to do what you make a promise to
do something in this case you make a
promise to honor and to be faithful to
someone or something to show respect to
someone to be faithful to to support
them to help them something or someone
okay then we get very specific what is
our topic the Pledge of Allegiance now
finally finally we've come to our main
topic in the reading passage right we
start off very general and we went very
narrow and we've come to our topic
the Pledge of Allegiance the pledge of
allegiance is a promise to honor the
American flag and the United States of
America so it's a promise to honor to
one thing is the American flag the
second thing is the United States of
America of course the flag is just a
piece of cloth it's a symbol the United
States of America is a country and the
people in the country and the government
of the country to be faithful to all the
people and the government the American
flag stands for stands for the republic
of the United States of America
remember Republic not a true democracy
but a republic where people vote for
representatives politicians to represent
them in the government so the American
flag stands for symbolizes the Republic
of the United States of America every
morning okay we're talking about the
Pledge of Allegiance every morning
students face the flag and say the
Pledge of Allegiance and this is true
American schoolchildren every morning in
school stand up face the flag and say
the Pledge of Allegiance people also do
it people also do it before sports or
government events begin so I told you
sports right before sporting games
baseball games and we saw the picture of
the football game but also before
government events so if the government
has an event or a meeting or some other
happening that the government is
involved in that's another time that
people say the Pledge of Allegiance they
show thanks show thanks for living in a
community with liberty and justice so
the pledge of allegiance isn't just a
promise it's also a way to show thanks
thanks for what thanks for living in a
community living in a nation with
liberty and with justice because that's
very important and hopefully most people
are not everybody around the world lives
in a community where there is liberty
and justice unfortunately there
countries where people don't have
liberty or they don't have justice right
so it's very lucky we should be thankful
we should show our support and a respect
and be faithful to our country when we
live under liberty and justice ok the
reading skill main idea and details the
main idea is here the pledge of
allegiance is a promise to beep the
American flag and the US that's our main
idea we have a blank in it we have two
details that support that main sentence
and in the two details and the second
detail we have two more blanks so we
have three blanks we have to fill with
these words justice honor and liberty
let's begin with a the Pledge of
Allegiance is a promise to do what to
justice to honor or to Liberty the
American flag and the u.s. well if we
just look at this sentence from a
grammatical point of view we see that we
need a verb a verb follows to is justice
a verb no it's a noun is Liberty a verb
no it's a noun honor is the only verb so
if we just look at it at a from a
grammatical point of view we know that
the answer has to be honor but if we
also look at it from the vocabulary
point of view what does it mean we also
understand it should be honor the Pledge
of Allegiance is a promise to show
respect to the American flag and the US
and that also fits so it's a verb and it
also means the correct it has the
correct meaning in the sentence okay the
first detail every morning students face
the flag and they say it so every
morning students face the flag and they
say this that's true that's one detail
the other detail is they who's they
students they show thanks for living
with what and what well here we have two
nouns both of them fit but in the Pledge
of Allegiance it's a certain order you
pledge allegiance to the flag with to
the flag of the United States or one
Republic under God indivisible with
OOP and boot for all what are the order
with liberty and justice for all
so liberty and justice for all that's
part of the Pledge of Allegiance
it's that same word order and usually
Americans when they think of liberty and
justice they think of Liberty first and
then just a second because that's part
of the Pledge of Allegiance you could
say justice and Liberty but because of
the Pledge of Allegiance it's more
common to say liberty and justice it
doesn't really matter though okay they
show thanks for living with liberty and
justice for all
for all the people okay let's go over
the reading comprehension questions how
well do you remember the reading passage
question number one what is another word
for pledge we talked about this a lot -
pledge means the same as to what -
Liberty - Republic or - promise again
from a grammatical point of view Liberty
is a noun Republic is a noun promise is
a verb pledge is a verb to pledge okay
what is another word for pledge by the
way I'm sorry pledge can also be a noun
promise can also be a noun so you gotta
be careful
but anyway pledge and promise are the
same meaning right to pledge means to
promise something if you promise to do
something you're making a pledge but the
difference again like I said before a
pledge is a more formal it's a more
solemn type of promise if you say to
your brother I promise I won't borrow
your clothes is that a pledge it's a
little bit fun not really a pledge
pledges would be more formal in that
situation a pledge is a promise you make
to other people to your family to your
country that's a pledge so it should be
promise number two every morning
students what and make a pledge what do
they do when they make the pledge do
they face the flag do they face their
teacher or do they face the republic
well of course you remember they face
the flag right they don't face their
teacher
that's like they're pledging their
allegiance to their teacher they don't
do that the teacher would have too much
power right
you don't pledge allegiance to your
teacher although you should show respect
for your teacher but you pledge
allegiance to the flag the country you
face the Republic how do you face the
Republic the Republic is an idea it's
not an actual thing so how do you face
where is the Republic right many
students would be confused they would be
pointing in different directions okay so
people students face the flag because
the flag is the symbol for the Republic
it's the symbol for the nation it's the
symbol for the country the United States
of America okay number three people give
the Pledge of Allegiance give you give
the Pledge of Allegiance when a before
sports or government events begin be
after school has finished for the day
see when they want to honor their
parents obviously see is not correct
when they want to honor their parents
the Pledge of Allegiance is not to honor
parents right after school is finished
for the day
school's out let's pledge allegiance no
we don't do it then right we do it
before sports or government events begin
and also at the beginning of the day
before school begins or you know right
when school begins okay so we pledge
allegiance before sports our government
events begin and also students do this
every day at the beginning of the school
day number four what is one way you can
show respect for someone how can you
show respect for someone a you can
pledge promise to show no justice oh
sorry no justice to that person I will
show you no justice no justice for you
is that showing respect for someone no
that's not showing respect for someone
that's saying I will give you no justice
I won't be fair to you I won't be equal
to you we don't mean that be you can
give allegiance to that person you can
how can you show respect for someone you
can give allegiance to that person yeah
sure you're showing them that you'll be
faithful that you will help them that
you will support them
you can pledge allegiance to a flag you
can pledge allegiance to a company you
can pledge allegiance to a person you
can pledge allegiance to many different
things but will you say the Pledge of
Allegiance we're talking about the
American pledge of allegiance to the
flag but please don't be misunderstood
please don't be confused you can pledge
allegiance to other things or to people
see you can give the American flag to
that person if you show respect for that
person no and in some situations some
people might not appreciate that if you
give the American flag to them they say
what are you doing especially in some
countries they might not like that so
you got to be careful the way that you
show respect for someone is you give
allegiance to that person and in fact
that's a common idea of course a long
long time ago when there were kings and
queens right the people would pledge
allegiance to the king pledge allegiance
to the Queen and that's giving
allegiance to a person they're showing
respect to their leaders a long time ago
okay let's move on to our chart here we
have the Pledge of Allegiance do you
remember the Pledge of Allegiance right
I said it for you earlier
right now you don't have to remember it
of course you're not citizens of America
but let's just go over together it's I
pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
Republic for which it stands the flag so
you pledge allegiance to the flag for
the Republic for which it stands it
stands for the Republic what is the
Republic one nation under God
okay so America you know it start got to
start as a religious nation one nation
under God indivisible it cannot be
divided with liberty and justice for all
for all the people are treated fairly
and equally and they all have freedom
and those are the ideals really of
America that it is a it is a republic it
is not a true democracy where everybody
directly participates in the government
leaders are chosen by the people it's a
republic and the flag stands for that
Republic it's one nation under God its
indivisible you cannot divide it
it has liberty and justice for all and
that is a pledge of allegiance for the
American flag so this unit was talking
about the pledge of allegiance of course
its pledge of allegiance we're talking
about the promise that students and
American citizens make to the flag that
symbolizes their nation and the idea is
the important ideas of America are of
course that it is a nation that has
justice and liberty for all people in
that country okay and it's a way to show
honor to not just the flag of course
you're showing honor to your country and
to the history of your country and to
the culture of your country so that is
the Pledge of Allegiance I'm sure you
probably have another pledge of
allegiance for Korea that you say during
important events so that's kind of
interesting to study about different
countries and what their you know
history is and a little bit about their
culture I hope you've learned a lot in
this lesson and we'll see you next time
take care everybody
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02