ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 3
[Community](https://youtu.be/gfSjMMXVAiAâ€‹)
==  Community ==
A community is a place where people live, work, and play. A community has many helpers.
Some helpers keep us safe and healthy. Some helpers keep the community clean. A community has many places. A community has places like a school, hospital, park and library. If you are looking for a place, you can ask a neighbor for help. Every place has an address to help you find the place. 
A map is an important tool to help you find where you want to go. To use a map, you should find the meanings of the symbols from the map key. Understanding the symbols will put you in the right direction to find your destination.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart
we're in lesson three of our textbook
now and in lesson three we're going to
be talking about home school and
neighborhood but specifically community
so we'll talk about what is a community
and you will discover a community has
many places and helpers helpers so a
community has many different places in
it and it also has many different people
who help you live your life let's take a
look at some of these ideas but first
let's talk about community what exactly
is community community is a place it's a
place where people live work and play
together think about where you live you
might live in a village a town or a big
city but each place has a community a
community in a village is probably the
whole village right that's the whole
village is a community if you live in a
larger town or even a big city the city
is in a community that's too big
you can't know everybody in the city but
you probably know everybody in your
neighborhood or you know most of the
people in your neighborhood the store
that you and your mom go to you probably
know the people in the story you go to
that store a lot the bank where you go
you probably know the bank nearby these
are places you go to and of course the
school in your neighborhood you know the
teachers and you know the students there
they are all part of your community so
community is a place where people live
work play together work and study by the
way so this is a good picture of a
community a community is a smaller area
right an area where you can walk around
not a big city right but a small part of
the city where your house is where there
are places around for you to do things
that is your community okay so community
is the place where you typically go and
you do your business and you play and
you work and you live there okay so that
is a community what kinds of things can
we find in the community well we can
find neighbor's a neighbor is a person
living near your house those are your
neighbors so who are your neighbors
think about that there are people living
near your house those people are your
neighbors by the way the people living
right next door we call them next-door
neighbor next door neighbor next door
because they're right next door right if
you're living in an apartment building
you go out of your door the next door
over or the next door across those are
your yup cheap Sadam right
yup cheap salon is next-door neighbor
they're the people who live right next
to you
so next-door neighbor but neighbor also
can mean people who live in your
neighborhood or community right people
who live near you they don't have to be
up cheap Saddam they could be what do
you say you Saddam right anybody who
lives in the area of your house those
are your neighbors okay probably you
know many of your neighbors okay let's
move on address the address is the
description or the the the very detailed
numbers and words that describe exactly
where you live the details details are
you know for example the numbers 150
West 45 Street also the names of the
places where you live so this is an
address you need to know the address of
the place where you work or live right
you guys know your address where you
live where your house is your parents
know the address of the place where they
work if you want to send a letter or a
package to
somebody at their house or their office
you need to know the address and you
write the address on the envelope or the
package and the post office sends it so
an address are the details how can I
find that person's house how can I find
that person's office I need to know the
address so what is your address right
think about that what is your address do
you know it if you don't know it ask
your mom write it down keep it with you
it's important information to know okay
we also have symbol now symbol is
interesting why do we need to know about
symbols well what is a symbol anyway a
symbol is a sign a number or a letter
with a certain meaning take a look at
these these are symbols why do we need
to know symbols because in our community
in our neighborhood there are many
places that we can find very easily by
just looking at the symbols we don't
have to look at the whole word we can
just look at a picture or a number or a
sign and we can know right away aha that
is a men's bathroom that is a woman's
bathroom go to the right bathroom right
okay so you will know very quickly if
you look at the symbol on the sign
uh-huh I know what that is I know where
to go so symbols help us out by letting
us know where things are very quickly
there are symbols of course for the
bathroom right these are symbols for the
bathroom where is the bathroom right Hwa
Jang shil odious endicott right where is
the bathroom if you see these symbols
you know right away there are also
symbols for the taxi stand or the bus
stop or perhaps you're trying to find a
school sometimes you see a picture of a
school with an arrow pointing that way
these are all symbols they help us
quickly know right away where things are
so symbols are very useful okay where do
we find symbols we also find symbols on
a map right a map is a drawing
of the Earth's surface showing the
position of things right this can be a
map usually we talk about when we talk
about maps we're talking about street
maps a street map is very useful because
it tells you where the streets are how
they intersect and where places are
actually if you look at this map closely
you can see many symbols right symbols
are also letters we see H we see some
places P H is probably for hotel or
hospital P is usually for parking so if
you're driving your car you want to know
where can I park so you find the P you
can park there so a map shows the
different streets and it has many
symbols on the map okay now when you use
a map you need to know about directions
directions are like north south west
East right but it can also be directions
can also be go right go left go straight
ahead those are also directions okay so
directions the point or position such as
north south east or west so usually when
we look at a map we have north right
north on the top south on the bottom on
the right side we have East and on the
left side we have West this is like our
compass marking our compass on a map
compass right these are compass
directions because if you use a compass
it will show you which way is north and
you can figure it out but also
directions are also right you could say
left and you can also say straight ahead
straight ahead
so if you're in a taxi and you're giving
the taxi driver directions you can say
go right go left go straight ahead or
you can say go north go east go west go
south it's very important to know these
corrections okay and of course these are
street signs telling you which way
you're going if you're going north on
Interstate 94 or you're going south on
Interstate 94 it's very important to
know which way you're going on the map
so you don't go the wrong direction the
opposite direction okay now we talked
about maps and I talked a little bit
about symbols right but when you look at
the map right remember we looked at that
map before and we saw sometimes there's
an H sometimes there's a P but how do
you know what those mean on every map
there is a map key it's like a key to
understanding the map right the map key
are the words or icons icon you know
icon from your computer right there are
many icons on your computer desktop
those are symbols - they're symbols for
the different programs that you use well
a map also has icons these are like
icons right here these little pictures
these are icons right they show the
meanings of the symbols on the map so
these are icons they are also symbols if
we see this icon or this symbol and
remember icon and symbol are really the
same thing
oops what did i do there let's do that
again icon icon is the same as symbol
okay so these are the same things icon
symbol same thing so if we see this icon
or we see this symbol we mean that well
that is for school I'll open book what
would that be of course that's library
an H in ace in a circle and a red square
that's a hospital here's a
strange-looking building looks like a
very old-style building that of course
is in museum and here what is this
that's a fire hose right wrapped around
of course that would be the fire station
so different Maps might have different
symbols not all maps have the same
symbols you have to look at the map key
usually in the corner of the map and you
can see the symbols for that Matt key
and remember
different maps use different symbols so
they're not always the same look at the
map key on the map to find the right
symbol to understand what those mean
okay now here we have our chart and we
see community places on the map key we
talked about some different places some
different symbols what are some
different symbols that you might find on
a map or what are some places you might
find or use everyday in your community
of course up here we have a park right a
park is a very nice place where you can
go run you can play you can throw balls
with your friends you can run with your
dog in the park store of course is where
you can go and buy things a store in
your community or your neighborhood it's
probably the store that you go to a lot
your mother probably has a favorite
grocery store she goes there almost all
the time for her certain groceries maybe
she takes you with her you get to know
the people if it's a small store you get
to know those people next down we have a
hospital hopefully you don't have to go
to the hospital if you're sick or you're
injured you might have to go to the
hospital hopefully you don't have to go
but if that happens there's a hospital
nearby in your neighborhood that you can
go to a theater do you guys go to the
theater do you watch movies if you like
to watch movies in a big theater not at
home but in a big theater you get more
sound bigger screen you go to the
theater okay maybe you go with your
friends or your family now of course
it's very important to go to the library
if you want to read new books or you
want to check out some different books
you can go to the library they have many
books to look at and to read it's a very
important place in your community
finally we have school of course school
is very important hopefully your school
is nearby it's not too far away you can
walk to school hopefully but school of
course is where you go every day it's
part of your community and in fact the
school is like a small community
by itself it has students teachers
principal parents all these people are
drawn together for the same purpose to
learn and to study and it forms a small
community by itself okay
so we can talk about different types of
communities right there's a community in
which you live there's a community in
which you study your father's office
that's like another community by itself
so there are like different types of
communities that have different places
and different people depending on where
we go and what we're doing right if we
live in one place that's our community
for living if we go study someplace
that's our community for studying if we
work in a place that's our community for
working so all of these communities
might be connected but they are also
kind of separate too so you can have
many different communities in your life
ok well let's move on now we're going
over to our exercise we have matching
the word and the definition so our words
are up here community community neighbor
neighbor address address symbol symbol
map that's easy map Direction direction
ok those are our words let's match those
words to the proper definition let's
take a look at the first definition
number 1 a place remember this is a
place where people live work and play
they do many things in this place we
just talked about that quite a bit right
I said there are different kinds of
communities right and I just gave you
the answer right community it's a place
where people live work and play
community ok we can talk about the
community together the whole thing the
neighborhood in which you live or you
can talk about different communities
like your school can be a different
community your father's office can be a
different community ok let's move on to
number 2 the details of a place the
details now we're looking at details
we're not looking about a place we're
looking at the details the numbers
and the letters that tell somebody
exactly where you live if I want to know
exactly where you live I would say what
is your address what is your address yes
okay good
number three now a person now we're
looking for a person a person living
near your house so we talked about that
and I told you there there are really
two kinds of people who live near your
house there's a people who live right
next door to you right next door right
yep cheap Saddam all there's people who
live in the area of your house you'd
Saddam right so what do we call those
people of course those are neighbor they
are our neighbors so next-door neighbor
yep jeeps are up or just neighbor Utes
or not right neighbor in your area near
where you live okay let's move on to
number four number four is a sign a
number or a letter so it can be many
different things it can be represented
by many different ways it can be a sign
right a big sign that you see with a
picture on it a number right it could be
a number of something while five six
eight you know something like that or it
can be a letter like H or P what are
these things
it has a certain meaning associated with
it so these things of course are symbols
they are a symbol a symbol is a sign a
number or a letter that has a special
meaning attached to it and you know
right away if you look at it aha
that's what it is but remember you need
to look at a map key to figure out
exactly what that symbol means number
five the point or position such as north
south east or west when we think about
that right think about that which way is
north
right now where you're sitting think
about which way is north and if you
think about north and you point towards
north you are pointing in that direction
in that direction in the North the north
direction right if you think about east
you point in that direction
that would be east right or south or
west okay so those are the different
directions that you have and of course
it's very important to know which way is
north which way is east south and west
especially if you're using a map because
that will help you go in the right
direction oh yeah let's finally go over
number six number six is a drawing of
the Earth's surface showing the
positions of things we just talked about
that right I said you need to know north
east south and west if you're using what
if you're using a map and you also need
to know what the symbols are when you're
using a map a map is a very useful piece
of paper or drawing that will help you
figure out where things are okay so
let's move on to our community helpers
we've talked about different places in
the community but what about people what
are some of the people who live in your
community and these people are people
who help you out or who are ready to
help you if you are in trouble
or if you're in danger you need some
help or if you just need help with your
daily life let's take a look at these
different people there's a four
different people we can see here these
are important people in your community
community helpers they help you if you
need it well first of all there's a
firefighter right very exciting job
right many young people want to be
firefighters when they grow older right
a firefighter has a very important job
what do firefighters do well let's take
a look at the video oh this is very
exciting video right here are
firefighters what are they doing yeah
they have a really big hose they're
shooting water and they're putting out
the fire so if there is an accident near
your house or for example this looks
like maybe a traffic accident and
there's a fire dangerous chemicals these
brave firefighters will come out and put
out the fire if there's a house in your
neighborhood that catches on fire again
the firefighters will come out and they
will use water or something to put
out that fire they will also save people
from burning buildings and they will try
to save people from burning vehicles so
firefighters are very important they're
very brave and they're very helpful to
us in our lives okay so as we saw
firefighters put out fires put out fires
and they save people right but here we
have doctor what does a doctor do a
doctor cures people cures people if you
are sick or you are injured you will go
see the doctor and the doctor will cure
you they will make you feel better so
doctors are also very important in our
community over here we have a police
officer what does a police officer do a
police officer keeps us safe keeps us
safe because the police officer will
make sure that people are not driving
too fast or that people are not doing
stupid or silly things okay or dangerous
things right they will catch bad people
and put them away in prison so police
officer will keep us safe okay and then
finally we have a librarian what do
librarians do they help us find books so
it's very important if we go to the
library helpful help us find whoops find
books or information not just books
librarians will help us find out you
know we want to know where a book is we
want to read the latest Harry Potter
novel or we want to find some
information on the Internet we can go to
the library and the librarian will help
us find that information for us either
find that book or help us use the
internet to find out what information we
need and there's lots of interesting and
and very fun information to find why
don't you go to the library ask your
librarian to help you find a book or
some information on the internet that
you're interested in so all of these
people are community helpers they help
us in the community there's many more
people there's just four we can just see
four of the important ones here but
there's a lot of different people in our
community who help us every day and
these can be community helpers right
these are people who help us live our
lives keep us safe protect us in case of
danger and if we're sick they will help
cure us so all these different people
will help us live our lives and help us
be happy and safe okay now let's take a
look at a question here we're gonna take
a look at a map and answer the question
but when you take a look at a map you
have to notice various things are very
important to notice where things are and
also some important information on the
map that gives you an idea about how the
map is used one very important piece of
information you should look at for a map
of course is the compass rose this is
called a compass rose I taught you
before compass but the symbol is called
a compass rose a compass rose a compass
rose basically tells you which way is
north south east and west so you can
turn the map and you can see which way
you're pointing and that way you can
figure out where things are on the map
you need to find the compass rose and
figure it out another important thing
you need to look at of course is the map
key it shows you the different symbols
or icons telling you what these things
are if you look at a map you're like
well it's a book there's a book here
that's not a book the book is a library
right so and what's this this is a hose
there's a hose lying on the street now
the hose of course means there's a fire
station there so of course these are
your symbols telling you what these
places are so we can see museum school
fire station library and over here is
hospital remember sometimes H is
hospital but H can also be hotel right
so you need to look at the map key to
make sure what these symbols mean okay
our question is here
right down here is our question what is
West
what is west of the school so we need to
find out where is the school first the
school it looks like this so where do we
find this symbol on the map
aha it's right here right so that's a
school the question is what is west of
the school so if we look at the school
we see that this is north right this
this direction if we look in this
direction that's north the direction of
West is over here so that's that
direction okay so what is west of the
school obviously we're looking at this
symbol here not this symbol this symbol
would be east but we want to know West
so we look on the west the west of the
school we find this symbol go to our map
key aha that's the same symbol here it
is the museum so what is west of the
school the answer is the museum and
that's what we've got right there okay
so that's pretty easy right it's kind of
like a puzzle isn't it you have to find
clues right you put all the clues
together and then you can figure out
what the answer is right and of course
if you're trying to figure out in
everyday life you know where is the
library where is the nearest subway
station right you use a map it's like a
puzzle you use all these clues and then
you find out the answer you find the
answer okay let's move on to our
true/false questions number one a map is
a place where people live and work
together
does that sound correct think about this
they're saying a map is a place is a map
a place no a map is not a place it's not
a place that you can go to write a map
is a is a piece of paper really it's a
drawing so a map is not a place right a
community is a place if we said
community then that would be correct
community a community is a place not a
map right so this of course is false
okay it's not a it's not a map it's a
community is a place where people live
and work together that's true number two
my neighbor
remember we talked about neighbor my
neighbor is the details of the place
where I live so a neighbor is a detail I
don't think so remember I told you
neighbors like yep Jeep Saddam or you
sit on right people a neighbor is a
person not a detail that sounds strange
right so a neighbor is in the details
what are the details of the place where
you live do you remember that that of
course would be address my address if we
change it to address then this sentence
is correct my address is the details of
the place where I live so this you know
this sentence is false we have to change
it to make it true right so it's false
the way it is ok number three a symbol
is a sign so here we have a symbol is a
sign with a certain meaning is that true
yes that is true a symbol is a sign with
a certain meaning that is a true
statement so remember symbols our signs
letters could even be pictures that that
have a certain meaning that represent a
certain meaning you can look at a symbol
and know right away what it is you don't
have to read words sometimes you just
look oh there's a picture of a school or
a picture of a book or a picture of a
fire hose and you know right away that
that's a school a library or a fire
station you don't have to read the words
you just look at the picture of
something and that's a symbol and of
course symbols can be letters or numbers
as well ok well that wraps it up for
this section for the vocabulary section
let's take a short break and take a look
at the reading section next hi everybody
welcome back to the reading section well
in the vocabulary section of course we
talked about community we talked about
places in the community and we talked
about people in the community well
that's what this reading section is
going to explain some more to us let's
take a look at it first of all we have
the first sentence which is the topic
sentence a community is a place where
people live work and play so that right
there is our topic sentence it tells us
what
our subject is our subject is community
right that's our subject what are we
talking about in this passage we're
talking about community what about
community a community is a place what
kind of place it's where we live where
we work and where we play that is a
community so a community has many
helpers okay so now we have a supporting
detail right we have a detail about
community helpers and helpers means
people so the next few sentences are
going to be about people and what they
do in our community some helpers so some
helpers or some people in our community
keep us safe remember I talked about
that keep us safe the police officer
right and healthy keep us safe and
healthy a doctor keeps us healthy right
cures us some helpers keep the community
clean we don't have a picture of those
people but sometimes you see people out
in the community there picking up trash
right or they're driving a truck which
sweeps the streets okay
those people keep the community clean
now we talked about people now let's
talk about places right a community has
many people but it also has many places
what kinds of places are in the
community well a community has a place
is like a school a hospital a park and a
library those are just a few there of
course many many places in a community
these are just a few these are examples
of places in a community right if you
are looking for a place if you're
looking for a certain place right you
want to know where is the library where
is this school where is the park you can
ask who you can ask a neighbor for help
so neighbor of course are people who
live nearby you in your community every
place has an address so the neighbor
will tell you the address to help you
find the place and address helps you
write it helps you to help you
find the place you want to find the
place you need to know the address so if
you know the address you can find the
place who do you ask you can ask a
neighbor what is the address of this
place or where is it exactly oh it's on
50 West Park Lane right oh I'm on West
Park Lane you go down you find the
number and that's 50 West Park Lane so
that is the address the specific address
of a place helps you find the place
you're looking for okay well if you you
can ask a neighbor that's one way to
find out where these things are but you
can also by yourself you can use a map
okay so a map is an important tool right
we talked about it before we said it was
a drawing it's a piece of paper but it's
an important tool to help you find where
you want to go of course just like an
address will help you find where you
want to go a map can help you find where
you want to go so both things are useful
for figuring out where to go and finding
out directions but to muse a map to use
a map in order to write in order to use
a map you should find the meanings of
the symbols from the map key so remember
we talked about symbols and we talked
about a map key a map has a map key in
some corner of the map that map key
shows you the different symbols you
should find the meanings of the symbols
from the map key you'll have the symbol
and then it will say what that means
right H is Hotel in a blue circle H in a
red circle maybe Hospital right P could
be parking lot or it could be Park you
have to look at the map key to find out
exactly what does that symbol mean
understanding the symbols right you have
to understand the symbols will put you
in the right direction to find your
destination so if you understand what
the symbols mean right you look at the
map key you understand the symbol then
that helps put you puts you in the right
direction so you might be pointing this
way oh it's this way so now I'm
but in the right direction to find my
destination I don't go this way I go
that way I don't go west I go north so
using a map with the symbols and the map
key will put you in the right direction
in order for you to find your
destination okay so that's our reading
passage let's take a look at our reading
scale reading skill is classified we
need to classify things we need to put
things in the proper group let's take a
look a community is where people live
work and play ok so here we have two
different groups our main groups we have
a we don't know what the first group is
because it's a blank we see the second
group is places aha we get an idea there
so in our community right we can find
two main things and of course in that
reading passage we talked about two main
things right first we talked about one
thing right for example police officers
doctors and street cleaners right that's
one group the second group we talked
about was places school park library etc
so we need to fill in these blanks
we have hospital helpers clean and
healthy so let's take a look at blank
number a first right they keep us safe
they keep the community something we're
talking about people aren't we people
some type of people which word here is
the same as a person or describes a
person hospital no that's a building
right that's a place helpers ah helpers
or people let's just make sure clean
clean is just an adjective telling us
that something is clean not dirty and
healthy is another adjective telling us
that we're healthy we're not sick right
so the only word that means people is
helpers so helpers needs to go up here
right and we think about that that's
true because the two main groups we
talked about in the passage right first
we talked about people police officers
doctors street cleaners those people are
helpers and the second group we've
talked about our places so if we split
this reading passage into two main
groups yeah first we
talked about helpers second we talked
about places and that's how we can
classify these things that we talked
about in the reading passage into two
main groups and that's what classify is
all about to put something into a proper
group
I'll get helpers they help they keep us
safe and what two helpers do they keep
us safe and what what did we see in the
passage do you remember they keep us
health a safety safe and healthy safe
and healthy police officers keep us safe
doctors keep us healthy okay they keep
the community what see they keep the
community clean we talked about that we
didn't see those people before but I
talked about that in the reading passage
there are people who sweep the street
pick up garbage street cleaners right so
they keep the community clean those are
people those are different types of
helpers what about places that we take a
look at this group here a community has
a school beep Park library etc so we're
looking for another example of a place
and when we first looked at for a I told
you hospital is a place right so a
community has a school a hospital a park
a library and etc etc many other
examples or many other places okay so
for example fire a fire station parks
things like that we already got Park a
community has a school hospital park
library etc so basically what we're
doing with this chart is we're splitting
the reading passage into two main groups
we have helpers is one group and our
second group is places and then we can
see some details about helpers and we
can see some examples of places and that
fills up our chart for classifying the
reading passage okay let's move on to
some reading comprehension questions
number one every place has a or an right
depending on whether it starts with a
vowel right every place has a or an beep
to help you find it so remember we
talked about places places have certain
details very specific details
tell you exactly where you can find that
place right
what are those are those symbols a
symbol is just kind of a not a very
specific indication or detail right
there symbols can represent many
different places not just one place so
that's probably not the right answer
every place has a helper to help you
find it every place has a helper
you can go there's a certain person who
you can go to to find the fire station
excuse me are you the helper for the
fire station no that's that's
unfortunately that's not true that's not
true
they don't have helpers but every place
has what an address yes
to help you find it that is true so
every place has an address some written
details that help you find exactly where
that place is that is the address what
is your address right your house has an
address if you don't know it ask your
mom okay number two to use a map if you
want to use a map right you want to use
the map well you should understand what
remember that exercise we looked at you
know what is west of the school we
looked at the map we want to understand
certain things right we want to
understand what the map symbols the
north map or the symbol directions which
one do you think is correct well of
course one thing we looked at on the
side of the map was the map key right
and the map key showed us symbols the
map symbols showed us what the symbols
on the map meant we need to know those
things the north map that doesn't make
any sense what is the north map that
that doesn't that's nonsense it doesn't
make any sense so that's not correct
symbol directions symbols don't have
directions right the compass rose shows
you the directions but the symbols don't
show you the directions the compass rose
shows you the directions north south
east and west on the map okay so what
you need to know what you need to
understand are the map symbols and you
look at the map key for that and then
you can use a map that's the way to use
a map correctly okay let's move on to
number three three says
has many helpers who oh my gosh look at
these really long answers let's go over
each one so community has many helpers
who do what helpers who helpers who and
then we need some verb phrase right some
verb clause what do these helpers do
hey keep us clean and keep the community
healthy so there are many helpers who
keep us clean they come over to our
house and they they give us a bath right
they wash this down with soap no that
would be really weird oh so that's not
right right they don't keep a keep us
clean keep the community healthy I mean
you could say a healthy community that
that could be possible that's a
possibility certain people do help keep
the community healthy that's true but
keep us clean that's weird that's that's
strange be keep us safe and keep the
community clean so keep us safe sure who
keeps us safe police officers keep us
safe keep the community clean we saw
that in the reading passage I talked to
you street cleaners will keep the
community clean so B sounds like the
right answer and yes it is well let's
just take a look at C for practice
hakuna has many helpers who make maps
and understand the symbols on a map well
that's kind of silly right many helpers
who make maps maps that that's kind of
so maps are probably made at a factory
or a printing press a printing facility
maybe not even in the community right
sometimes maps are made far away right
depending on on how much they charge for
making maps so this is kind of a weird
answer see would it be correct B is the
best answer many helpers what do they do
they keep us safe they keep the
community clean also we could expand
that of course there are many helpers
also who cure us of diseases who help us
find information who teach us right
there are many different types of
helpers these are just two of the things
that those helpers do one police
officers keep us safe two street
cleaners keep the community clean so B
is our right answer let's look at number
four if you are looking for a place so
you're looking for a place you want to
find up
you can do what what can you do what can
you do
Wow we have long answers again a find
the direction using a symbol in a
library so you have to go to the library
and find a symbol that will give you the
direction now that's really weird that's
strange you wouldn't do that that's a
waste of time B get a community helper
to make you a map key that's also a
nonsense answer isn't it that's just
kind of City silly there are no
community helpers who are going to make
map keys for you that's just nonsense
that's silly so see ask a neighbor for
directions or use a map okay
yeah sure you can you there's two ways
one way ask a neighbor for directions
that's one way or use a map that's the
second way so one way is ask a neighbor
for directions one or two use a map
that's true you can do either of those
things to find a place if you're looking
for a place okay let's move on we have
our chart here we saw this chart before
these are places in the community we
have the pictures right what are these
places let's start up here here we can
see a very nice place it's outdoors
right it's out in nature you can go and
play there with your friends you can
play with your dog run with your dog you
can throw balls - you're all friends
right baseball or football or you can
kick balls to each other soccer where is
this place of course this place is
called a park and it's outside it's
where you can run around you can enjoy
being outside you can enjoy nature in a
park over here we have a picture of two
people doing something looks like mom
and her son they are at a place and they
are going to buy something looks like
they're gonna buy some type of food so
what place is this in your community
where do you go to buy things to eat or
to use at your house
that of course is called a store okay so
we go to a store to buy things either to
eat or to wear clothes to use and our
home toys utensils things like that okay
over here we have a picture looks like a
doctor
patient the doctor wants to cure the
patient where do you go this patient was
sick or perhaps she was injured if you
were sick or injured where do you go of
course you go to the hospital
hopefully you don't go to the hospital
right just even if you have to go visit
somebody I hope you don't have to do
that but if somebody's sick
if somebody's injured they can go to the
hospital and they can get better so
hospitals are important parts of the
community
finally let's say you want to go see a
movie right but you don't want to see a
movie at home right the screen is too
small the sound system might be too loud
for your neighbors right you want big
sound you want a big screen you want to
go with your friends so where would you
go what is this picture of this picture
of course is of a theater we can also
say movie theater movie theater okay
over here we have two people looking at
books looks like they're very interested
in reading it's very interesting there's
a lot of interesting and fun information
that you can find here look at all the
books so many books if you want to book
about almost anything where can you go
you can of course go to the library in
your community go to the library finally
here we see children they look like
they're very busy doing something okay
they have their pens they have their
books they are studying very hard where
are they of course they are at school
they are at school okay so these are all
places in the community all these
different places are in the community
park store hospital theater library and
school these are all places that we go
to every day in our community remember a
community is a place where you live you
work and you play in the community and
there you know that of course we can
talk about the community as the
neighborhood or the area in which you do
these things but also we can have
smaller communities within a big
community like a school is a smaller
community inside your larger community
an office can also be a smaller
community there are helpers people who
help you in the community police
officers doctors firefighters
librarians these are people who help you
in the community and there of course
also many different places in the
community okay so that's very
interesting information to know good
vocabulary to learn about the community
where you live work and play okay that
wraps it up for today we'll see you guys
next time take care everybody
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01