ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 4 People Work
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 12
[Visiting the Market: https://youtu.be/WtPX9V-lM6Yâ€‹](social-2-12.md)

The market provides buyers with goods. 
You"re at the market with your mom now. 
There are many different vegetables, fruits, and cereals you can find. 
You can also find juice and milk. 
These are healthy foods and we can eat them every day! 
Your mom looks at her shopping list and picks out some fruit and vegetables. 
She chooses the best goods after thinking and comparing. 
Then the worker weighs the goods and tells her the price. 
Your mom walks towards the counter. 
Now she will go home and cook after paying.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everyone welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart are
you ready to go shopping I hope so
because lesson 12 is talking about
visiting the market in this lesson you
will discover the market provides buyers
with goods so what kinds of things can
you buy at the market and how do you buy
them let's take a look first of all one
of the things we can buy at the market
one of the things that is very good for
your health is vegetable and of course
we usually talk about vegetables right
because there are many vegetables that
are good for us a vegetable is a plant
that people can eat as food so basically
any plant that you can eat as food we
call that as a vegetable of course there
is a distinction made from fruits right
fruits and vegetables are a little bit
different but usually our definition
here a vegetable is a plant that people
can eat as food ok our next word is a
verb to provide this is what markets do
for people they provide things provide
means to give someone something and as
we can see it is a verb to give to give
someone something is to provide them
with something so if you provide
somebody with something you are giving
them the thing or you're giving them the
chance to buy your thing ok markets
provide many goods for sale so markets
give many products for sale to customers
our next word is pick out when you go to
the market wow there are so many fruits
and vegetables so many different types
of food that you need to choose which
one you want you can't get them all
right
your stomachs not big enough right so
you want to pick out the ones that you
want pick out means to choose
one from many things especially
sometimes you go to a supermarket and
you see wow there are so many apples and
even so many different kind of apples
right there's green ones there's red
ones there's big ones there's small ones
which one do you get right there's sweet
ones there's sour ones you have to
choose which one you want and even in
the in the bin if you say I want a green
one you have to choose which green one
you want so you pick out your groceries
you pick out the goods that you want to
buy from among many choices so you want
to pick them out okay well so halfway
when you buy especially when you buy
vegetables or fruit or some type of food
that's not packaged right it just comes
in a there's a lot of them and you pick
out several of them you have to weigh
them because the store needs to know how
much to charge you for those Goods how
do you know if there's five apples you
have five big apples maybe five smaller
apples or cheaper right of course the
more you buy the heavier the item you
buy the more it costs so you need to
weigh it weigh means to put something on
a scale to see how heavy how heavy it is
and this is a type of scale of course
the scale that you see at the grocery
store is not this type of scale you put
it on and there's a little electronic
right a digital readout it tells you how
much something is or sometimes the clerk
pushes a button and a little paper comes
out and that's the price of the goods
that you want to buy that is the price
of the cucumbers or the tomatoes or the
apples that you want to buy so you need
to weigh them first before you go to pay
for those goods okay also milk milk is
another thing that you can buy at the
supermarket or grocery milk of course is
a white drink it's white in color that
we can get from cows right goats and
sheep did you know that of course
normally we drink cow's milk but you can
drink goat milk and sheep milk did you
ever have goat milk or sheep milk I
never drank that I've hope he's drunk
cow milk that's the most common type of
milk but in some places where there
aren't many cows you can get milk from
goats and you can get milk from sheep
and human beings can drink that also but
normally we get milk from cows okay a
buyer what is a buyer that's you right
or that's your mom or dad right when you
go to this grocery store if you go with
your mom she is the buyer if you go by
yourself and you buy something you are
the buyer so a buyer is someone who buys
something and she this woman here is a
buyer she has bought many things right
she is a very busy buyer right okay so
when you go to the store and you buy
something you can call yourself a buyer
we can also call that person of course a
customer a customer is someone who goes
into a store and buys a good so buyer or
customer okay let's take a look at our
chart here how goods come to home how do
these Goods come to your home well of
course we have the goods here right
these are many products different types
of products that we can buy oh of course
it doesn't matter if they're food toys
whatever they are goods then they are
sold in the market you go to the market
to buy those things some markets are
very big sometimes you have small
neighbourhood soup all supermarket right
a very small market but markets are many
different sizes and shapes and types but
you go to the market to get the goods at
the market you meet the seller the
seller is the person who works at the
market you are the buyer you're the one
you're the one who buys the product so
you are the customer right the seller
gives goods to the buyer and the buyer
enix
change gives money to the seller so in
exchange you're not really just exchange
the seller isn't just giving you the
goods you're giving that person
something in exchange as a trade right
they give you the goods you give them
the money that's in exchange okay
so goods the buyer gets the goods and
the buyer gives the money to the seller
then after the buyer has taken the goods
given the money then the buyer goes home
and then everybody in the family enjoys
the goods okay and that's how Goods come
to your home let's take a look at our
word matching exercise we need to match
the words to the proper definitions
let's take a look our words are
vegetable vegetable provide provide pick
out pick out way that's easy right whey
milk milk and buyer buyer those are our
words how do we match them to the
definitions let's start with number one
someone who buys something that's easy
right someone who buys something if you
buy something there the person who does
it we just add er to the verb right buy
is the verb we add er and we have our
word buyer over here this is a pattern
that is very common in English by the
way for example if you wait right wait
is a verb but if your job is to wait on
people at a restaurant you are called a
waiter right if you drive a vehicle
drive is our verb but if you drive a
vehicle for a job right like a bus you
are a driver right so we see that verb
and then we add er or sometimes just AR
and that makes a person who does that
so a person who buys something is a
buyer very simple and very common
pattern we can see in English number two
a plant so we're looking for a plant
that people can eat as food we can eat
it as food where is our plant that we
can eat as food it's over here isn't it
that's the vegetable vegetable is a
plant that we can eat as food and of
course you should always eat vegetables
every day for a healthy body because
vegetables are very healthy for us ok
number three to put something on a scale
on a scale to see how heavy it is we
want to know how heavy are these apples
how heavy is this watermelon right
watermelons are very heavy we need to
know how heavy it is so we put it on a
scale what are we doing when we do that
we are weighing so to weigh means to put
something on a scale because we want to
know our question is how heavy is it
number four to choose one from many
things so you want to choose one you
have many things in front of you you
want to choose one of those things you
pick out right you pick something out so
when you choose from many things you are
picking out one thing from many choices
for many options so you pick it out five
to give someone something if you give
someone something especially if you give
someone the choice or you give someone
the opportunity to do something what are
you doing you are providing you provide
so a market provides many goods to its
customers right they provide they give
those customers many choices many
options to pick something out they
provide many goods to customers six a
white drink that we can get from cows
goats and sheep and this white drink is
very good for us it helps build strong
bone
homes in teeth right so what is this
product what is this thing it is of
course milk and you should drink milk
every day also because that's very
important for us growing strong and
healthy body it helps build your bones
stronger and also helps have you
it also helps let you have healthy white
and strong teeth which is very important
obviously ok let's take a look at our
chart here now when you go to the
supermarket and you buy something there
are many ways that you can pay for these
Goods right you're getting the product
in exchange you're giving the seller
money so how do you give money to the
seller there's four different ways we
can see on this chart one way is you can
have coins right if you have a lot of
coins you can give all the coins to the
seller right of course the seller may
not like that because they have to count
all the coins but usually you can use
bills and coins together so you have
paper money and you can give coins for
the rest the change right so if
something is you know each on Oh bag one
right you give each on one as paper
money and Oh beg one as a coin right or
if you go to an American supermarket and
something has two dollars and twenty
five cents you give two dollars in paper
money and twenty five cents as a quarter
you give that as coin so we have coins
and bills that's really of the most
common type of money that we use but we
can also and this is very common in
America especially not so common in
Korea but very common in America is you
can write a check
write a check now what this means is
that you have a bank account you have a
bank account and you open it up and it's
called a checking account and the bank
gives you a little book with all these
checks on it and when you go to the
supermarket you can write the name of
the supermarket happy supermarket right
if the name is happy supermarket you
write that there then you write
how much in numbers one or two and then
up you write 225 so you write up here
225 just like that and underneath on the
bottom you write the whole thing out you
have to write like this two dollars and
25 is 100 so that means 25 cents and
then you go like this so that nobody can
add more money at the end right that's
not good so you put two dollars and 25
cents you write it out and then you sign
your name sign your name at the bottom
right so you sign your name like this
that's signing my name right at the
bottom of the check I give that to the
supermarket seller and they accept that
as money especially if it's a local bank
let's take a look here this is somebody
who's doing exactly what I just said
as you can see they've already filled
out their check they have pay to the
order of that's the name of the person
that they're giving the check to they
wrote the number it's a little bit hard
to see
oh they're rejecting it why they reject
that check that's terrible okay we'll
get to that but as you can see they
wrote the numbers out up here then they
wrote the same number in longhand 1340 I
believe it's nine dollars and I can't
see the cents because it's a little
blurry
but they have to write it out here then
they say sometimes you can say what is
it for here they said for service and
then they sign their name here now you
saw that stamp come down and said reject
I don't know what that's about that
means that they're not going to accept
the check they're gonna reject it
hopefully they don't do that if they
reject it that means they refuse that
check that check cannot be used but in
most cases stores will accept the check
okay I hope that's the case okay
but anyway that's a very common system
in America that people use and they have
a book of checks and you can use them as
money one thing that might happen though
is if they write a check for too much
money they don't have that much money in
the bank account then it can be rejected
and the check will
and that's very bad because you have to
pay off penalty okay but that's a very
complicated thing anyway the thing is
that in America cheques are actually
quite common as a form of money finally
we have credit card now you probably are
familiar with credit card credit cards
are becoming more and more common
sometimes people at the store will say
how will you pay cash or credit cash or
credit and that means will you pay with
cash bills or coins or will you pay by
credit and that of course means by
credit card and credit cards are very
dangerous because be careful using
credit cards you can spend too much
money and forget if you have coins and
bills you know exactly how much money
you have so be careful with credit cards
but these are four different ways that
people can spend money or use money to
buy goods or services okay let's come to
this mini quiz here we have complete the
sentence to best describe the pictures
we have two pictures here this picture
here is in a pharmacy a pharmacy this is
where you go to get drugs that will help
you like medicines aspirin things if you
have a stomachache you know oh my
stomach hurts so you go to the pharmacy
and you can get medicine and it will
make you feel better so this is at a
pharmacy this is a pharmacist this is
the buyer or customer she is buying
goods over here this is a clothing store
here we have the seller we have the
buyer she is also buying her goods right
so sellers BEP buyers with goods so
whether it's medicine or clothes sellers
are doing what they're giving they are
providing sellers provide buyers with
goods
basically what sellers are doing they're
giving the customers the opportunity or
the chance to buy these goods so they're
providing many goods for the sellers the
sellers can go
to the store and buy those goods so
they're providing the sellers with many
Goods and we go there and pick out which
one we want ok we've come to our
true/false questions let's take a look
we can buy fruit and vegetables at a
market is that true we can buy fruit and
vegetables at a market of course that is
true absolutely we go to a market to buy
many types of goods usually a market is
a food market right and usually
supermarkets are food markets but we can
just say market to the most common type
of market is a food market where we go
to buy our groceries the food that we
need for every week and of course fruits
and vegetables are very important parts
of our groceries so if we want to buy
fruit we want to buy vegetables we can
go there by the way sometimes fruit is
used as a non-count noun we can buy
fruit or sometimes you can say fruits as
plural it depends on how you use it
but this is fine we can buy fruit and
vegetables at a market number to pick
out to pick out means to choose one from
many things so this sentence says that
pick out as a verb it means to choose is
that true if you have many things and
you have to make a choice is it true
that you pick out is that what it means
absolutely that is what it means so that
number 2 is a true sentence it's exactly
true pick out means to choose one thing
from many others number 3 people who
work at the market people who work where
at the market are buyers so people who
are working at the market right they are
accepting money and they are giving
goods to buyers they are liars right no
they're not you that sounds a little
weird buyers give goods to buyers right
people who work at the market are not
buyers that's false we have to change
this word how can we change that word
with a word that we learned already that
we talked about
people who work at the market are not
buyers they are sellers right and even
though that word was not part of our
vocabulary we looked at that on our
chart and it follows the same pattern I
showed to you before cell is a verb a
person who does that verb is a seller
just like buy is a verb and a person who
does that verb isn't by earth so people
who work at the market are not buyers
they are sellers so number three is
false
okay well that wraps it up for our
vocabulary section let's take a short
break we'll come back and look at the
reading section don't go away welcome
back let's go over the reading section
together of course we're talking about
visiting the market and that is what the
reading section is about our first
sentence is the market provides buyers
with goods we have two of our vocabulary
words right away provides buyers with
goods so if a buyer wants to get goods
where do they go they go to the market
because the market provides buyers with
goods the market gives goods to the
buyers it gives the buyers opportunities
or chances to pick out the goods they
want you're at the market with your mom
now you are oh I thought you were
studying with me no I'm just kidding
we're just imagining right okay so
you're at the market with your mom now
imagine right don't go there don't run
away go get mom let's go to the market
no don't do that
right let's just imagine okay so you're
at the market with your mom now there
are many different vegetables fruits and
cereals you can find so vegetable was
our vocabulary word but remember
vegetables is one type of plants you can
eat fruit is another type of plant you
can eat and we also have another thing
here cereals of course you know what
cereals are cereals are crunchy like the
baked look biscuits or anything but
they're made from wheat or they're made
from rice and they're baked
and they taste good right you pour them
in a bowl put milk over them and eat
them very common breakfast food so
vegetables fruits and cereals you can
find many types of these things there
are many different types of these things
at the market that you can find you can
also find juice and milk right so you
have your food you also have your drink
right of course if you just eat cereal
by itself you have milk there but maybe
you want some orange juice with that
right so of course you have to put milk
into your cereal too these are healthy
foods healthy foods and we eat them
every day absolutely most American kids
they'll eat cereal for breakfast every
day
they'll put milk in the cereal they
might have orange juice with it and
hopefully they have a fruit with their
breakfast at lunch they will mom will
pack a lunch for them mom usually packs
a vegetable like carrots or something
like that and maybe a fruit like an
apple or an orange into the sack lunch
into the lunch that the children carried
to school so it's very important to eat
these things every day because they are
healthy foods they're good for you
these are healthy foods we can eat them
every day so let's eat them every day
okay
your mom looks at her shopping list and
picks out some fruit and vegetables
before your mom goes to the store she
makes a list right she makes a shopping
list what does she need so when she goes
to the store there's so many things she
doesn't have to spend too much time
thinking what do we need she knows what
she needs because she looks at the list
and she can do her shopping very quickly
okay she picks out some fruit and
vegetables and here she is she's picking
up some fruit looks like she's picking
up are picking out some apples she
chooses the best goods after thinking
and comparing so if on her list it says
get apples we need six apples she will
look at the different types of fruit of
apples she'll think about it she
think about which one is cheaper which
one is better quality which one is
better taste and then she'll pick out
the ones that she wants and that's how
she chooses the goods for the family
then the worker the worker is talking
about the person at the supermarket the
worker weighs the goods and tells her
the price so mom will give those apples
to a worker somebody who's working there
and you can see them if you go to a big
supermarket you can see the people
working there they usually have the
uniform or an apron for the store on and
they're standing next to the scale the
weighing machine and so mom will give
them the goods the worker will put them
on the scale and say what the price is
tells her the price so your mom walks
towards the counter now she will go home
and cook after paying so the counter we
also call this counter in the
supermarket the check out counter check
out counter and that of course is where
she takes all of her goods she puts them
on the counter and another worker behind
the counter takes those Goods and uses a
machine to add up the prices of all the
goods then mom pays that person with
some type of money bills coins check
credit card and then she goes home and
cooks after she pays after paying okay
so that is the story of how mom goes to
the supermarket and gets the goods
brings him back home let's take a look
now at our reading skill and we're
looking at sequence because basically
this is like a story right you're
imagining you're at the supermarket now
with your mom what are the steps that
mom does in order to get those goods and
then to be ready to go back home and
cook for the family we have three steps
first step second step third step there
are blanks in each step these are the
words we use
to fill in the blanks the words are
price pays picks out and ways
remember picks out is like one blank
right there together okay so what's the
first step your mom does what with some
fruit and vegetables right your mom will
when she goes to the supermarket there
are many types of fruits and vegetables
are many types of fruit and vegetables
so she has to choose which ones to buy
she has to choose she has to pick out
right your mom picks out some fruit and
vegetables she chooses the fruit or the
vegetables that she wants to buy after
she does that you know she puts it in a
bag then what does she do the work her
beep the goods so she gives the goods to
the worker right and the worker puts
those goods on a scale to see how heavy
they are right we need to know how heavy
they are to know how much does it cost
so when we put it on a scale to find out
how heavy their what are we doing we of
course are weighing so the worker weighs
the goods weighs the goods and tells her
what tells her the price we talked about
that I just said that we not we want to
know how much it costs we want to know
what is the price so the worker will
weigh the goods and tell her the price
finally the last step at the supermarket
your mom does what she does what at the
counter remember this is also called the
check out counter what does mom do at
the checkout counter she has to give
money right when she gives money what is
she doing she is paying so your mom pays
at the counter at the checkout counter
it's the place you know you get all your
goods together finally the last stop
before you leave the store you pay for
your goods at the counter then after she
pays then she will go home and she will
cook and we can enjoy a delicious meal
sounds good right and that's how mom
gets the food
from the market to your home okay
let's go over our reading comprehension
questions number one what does a market
provide to buyers so in the from the
passage we remember what does the market
provide to buyers a B or C well a is
money B is goods and C is checks so when
we go to a market do we want the market
to give us money no we're gonna give
money to the market so a is not right
right
do we want each X is similar to money
checks is almost the same as money right
we want the market to give us checks no
we're not at the market to get checks
we're at the market to get goods right
so the answer is B what does a market
provide to buyers its goods okay number
two you can use money or a beep to pay
for goods remember what I told you the
very common question that a worker at
the checkout counter will ask you is
cash or credit so will you pay by cash
which is money or will you pay with
credit and when you pay by credit how do
you pay with credit do you do you give
them a piece of fruit let's credit
here's a piece of fruit would you like a
banana that's crazy right
that's very silly okay be white drink or
here's a white drink that's also very
silly how about this one credit card
sure you can use money or a credit card
to pay for goods because you're gonna
pay with cash money or credit card to
pay with credit so you use a credit card
as credit and that's what you're using
so you either have the actual bills and
coins which is money right that's cash
or you have a piece of plastic that is
your credit card and a third option we
talked about of course is cheque so
sometimes you can use a cheque and this
is kind of common in America although
you know it's it's becoming maybe a
little bit less common most people will
use
or credit card in fact more and more
people are using credit cards instead of
cash so I think credit cards are
probably most popular cashes next
popular and checks are sometimes
accepted but sometimes they're not
accepted especially credit checks are
not accepted if I'm from Florida one
state and I go to California and I say
can I use a check usually they say no
because the check on my bank is in
Florida it's too far away so I either
have to use cash or credit card these
are the two most common types checks you
can use if it's local in your
neighborhood the bank is in your
neighborhood and the supermarket is in
your neighborhood then that you can use
a check okay but anyway that's a long
explanation for this one basically you
can use money or a credit card to pay
for goods okay you can also use check in
certain circumstances okay number three
after you choose fruit and vegetables
after you chose the fruit and vegetables
what can you do a B or C
let's take a look hey you can find the
price by having them weighed so in the
supermarket you've chosen you've picked
out your fruit and vegetables you can
find the price by giving them to the
worker the worker will weigh them is
that true yeah that is true absolutely
that's what we do let's go over B and C
for practice B you can provide the buyer
with money that doesn't make sense
because you are the buyer you don't
provide yourself with money that would
be silly doesn't make sense
C you can take them home without paying
tow to do that right the police will
come and take you to jail okay do not
take the fruit and vegetables home
without paying that's stealing
right if you do that that is called
stealing stealing okay so absolutely do
not do that okay the answer is a you can
find the price by having them weighed
okay for Adam market your mom will pick
out something she will pick out a the
the best goods after thinking and
comparing B fruit and vegetables that
way the most C
goods that she will sell to the seller
at the counter two of those sounds silly
one of them is correct of course it's a
that's correct at a market your mom will
pick out the best Goods after thinking
and comparing so even though mom has a
list right she says the list might say
apples but there are many kinds of
apples she has to think about which
apples to buy she wants to compare the
prices the shape the size the quality if
they look fresh if they look old right
she has to do all that is she has to
pick out the best ones okay let's take a
look at B for practice your mom will
pick out the fruit and vegetables that
weigh the most that doesn't make any
sense why does she want to get the
heaviest ones right it doesn't mean that
they're the best ones just means that
they're the heaviest ones well sometimes
you don't want the heaviest ones maybe
you want smaller ones so that doesn't
make sense
see goods that she will sell to the
seller at the counter that doesn't make
any sense right she's not gonna pick up
the goods and go sell them at the
counter they're not hers right she can't
sell them there the markets so that of
course is not logical it doesn't make
sense and we saw that a is the best
answer there okay let's come back to our
chart here how goods come to home and
that we were talking in the reading
reading passage how goods get to your
home and we saw the little sequence the
steps in which they come to your home
but first of all what do we have if we
go to the market what do we find we find
many types of food fruits vegetables
different types of drinks what are all
these things these are all things
objects that we can buy with money we
call these goods right these are goods
these Goods are located in the Mart and
we're in the market right they are
located in the market the market is a
place where two types of people come
together we have the seller and the
buyer these are two types of people they
meet at the market why because the
seller is going to provide goods to the
buyer and the buyer is going to give
money to the seller in exchange for the
goods
and that's of course is the way the
economy works so after the buyer has
bought the goods from the seller she
brings them where she brings them home
so the whole family can enjoy a
delicious meal together and of course a
healthy meal obviously they have many
vegetables and some fruits here as well
so this is going to be a healthy meal
that they are going to enjoy together
okay so our unit was 12
visiting the market we've talked about
some a little a few things that we can
find at the market usually food drinks
you know food like cereals fruit
vegetables drinks like milk orange juice
stuff like that
these are things that are healthy for us
we should eat them every day how do we
get them well the buyer the person who
buys something is a buyer goes to the
market the person who sells something is
the seller right they're providing the
goods to the buyer the buyer is giving
money in exchange there's four common
ways to use money coins bills checks and
credit card of course nowadays it's
usually credit card cash is also very
common checks are not so common and
remember that they are in America and
they are used in America much more often
in Korea I've hardly ever seen it check
somebody writing a check in Korea I've
never seen that I've seen the pre-made
checks the cheque that's like a soup
hill for shipment whan I've seen those
but that's not the same as a cheque in
America so there are four main types of
money that we use in America to pay for
our goods but anyway that wraps up the
process of how Goods come to home and
what you can find in a market and how
you can buy healthy food for you and
your family that wraps it up for today
are you hungry
I'm getting hungry talking about all
this food so go enjoy a healthy snack
okay I'll see you guys next time take
care
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02