ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 4 People Work
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 11
[Goods and Services](https://youtu.be/B8B07E4On5Eâ€‹)
==  Goods and Services ==
People buy goods and services to meet their wants and needs. Bread, apples, cars, and toys are all goods. You get services when you take a bus, go to a hairstylist, or see a doctor. People make or grow goods and sell them in stores. They sell services too. They sometimes come to you with their services. A mail carrier delivers your letters to you. You have to pay money to buy goods and services. 
When you do this, you should compare the prices and quality. You can also trade goods or services.
Children at times trade their lunch or small chores with each other.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart
we're on lesson 11 today and we're
talking about goods and services very
important lesson you will discover in
this lesson that people meet their wants
and needs so what are things that you
want what are things that you need as we
will discover in this lesson there are
basically two types goods and services
and we can see pictures of both here we
have a bicycle is that a good or a
service that's a good and then here we
have somebody who delivers our mail
gives us our mail is that a good or a
service that's a service let's find out
more in fact we're gonna talk about
goods at the beginning goods by the way
you can use goods as singular or plural
you can say a good or you can say many
goods so you can say good or Goods now
these are all goods right goods are
really objects goods are things that
people buy or use so remember goods are
objects they're physical things that you
can hold you can put them in your bag
right you can carry them in your pocket
if they're small enough right but don't
carry scissors in your pocket of course
but you can put other things in your
pocket so paper paintbrushes paint
scissors pencils these are all goods
they are all objects they are all things
that we buy or use that we want or need
so those would be goods physical objects
that's different from a service and
again service can be singular or plural
we can also say service says right there
are many services so when we talk about
the economy or we talked about the the
idea of things that we need or want we
can break them down into
goods or services a service is work it's
not a thing you cannot hold a service
you can't put a service in your backpack
you can't put a service in your pocket
service is work that other people that
people do for others
so it's work that other people do for
you and of course you give them
something in return maybe money or you
do something for them but those would be
services what service is going on here
it's haircutting ok a person who cuts
your hair they're not giving you a good
it's not a good it's a service it's work
so basically two main things we're
talking about in this unit goods which
are objects and services which is work
ok so those are the two main things two
very important concepts in this unit ok
when we talk about goods and services
like I said you know if somebody works
for you you give them something what do
you give them you give them whatever the
price for their service is or the price
for the good if you go into a store
there's a lot of goods you have to look
at the prices to understand how much it
costs price the amount of money that you
have to give to buy something so if you
want to know the price you can ask how
much how much does it cost how much does
it cost and that is the amount of money
the amount of money is the cost how much
does it cost
ooh my oh right oh my oh how much does
it cost
that is the price what is the price is
another way but it's more common to say
how much does it cost and you're talking
about the price so you can see the price
on the goods in the store and that is
the amount of money that you have to
give the store to buy something if you
want these apples you have to give them
the amount of money that's on the price
here by the way you see in this
there are many price tags that's another
important expression to remember a price
tag that is a tag especially on clothes
when you buy clothes there's a price tag
it says how much is the shirt how much
are those jeans that you look at the
price tag it tells you the amount of
money okay now when we're talking about
goods and services of course you want to
exchange those one person wants them
another person wants to give them away
but you don't give them away and you
don't take them you sell them or you buy
them in this case we're talking about
sell sell means to give something for
money be careful if you just say to give
I will give it to you that's for free
that's no money to give means for free
for example if I say oh do you want this
key I will give you this key that means
there's no money but if I sell you the
key that means I want you to give me
money for it right I'm not just gonna
give you the key I want something in
exchange for that key in exchange I want
something in exchange
that means I'm like giving you something
you're giving me something usually the
seller will give the object the buyer
will give money right you give money and
that of course is what we're talking
about here sell is like in Korean you
say hello dock right Paulo da is my
Korean okay is that okay Paulo da that's
to sell you give something the other
person gives you money that sell what's
the opposite of sell pandeiro how do you
say that that of course is to buy you
buy something in that case you want
something so now you give the money and
the other person gives you the object
okay
so that means to get something by giving
money for it okay so of course by is sad
right sada to buy so you're gonna buy
something now it's interesting of course
we just talked about sell we talked
about buy we can talk about the people
involved in both we have a seller and we
have a buyer so if you are giving an
object and you're taking money in return
you are the seller but in this case if
you are giving money and getting an
object in return you are the buyer
usually we are the buyers right there
are many more buyers than there are
sellers right a grocery store is one
seller but many buyers go to that store
okay so we can say seller and buyer
along with sell and to buy are those the
only two ways that we can get goods and
services either by selling or by buying
those are the only two things there's
one more thing we can do and that is to
trade this is an interesting idea before
we talked about sell and buy we're
talking about money right but in trade
there's no money to trade means to give
someone one thing and get another thing
from them in this case they're
exchanging or they're trading balls he
wants the blue ball he wants the red
ball so they switch imagine you're
eating lunch with your friend at school
you have a ham sandwich your friend has
a cheese sandwich you say hmm I will
trade you some of my ham for some of
your cheese so you give that your friend
half half of your ham not all of your
ham but half of your ham and your friend
gives you half of his cheese now you
have you both have a ham and cheese
sandwich right because you traded
objects when you trade objects no money
involved then you are trading you are
exchanging objects so there's sell buy
and trade those are the three things we
do with goods
and services okay now to pay is very
similar when we're talking about to buy
or sell when you say you're going to pay
that means you give money for something
so who gives money who pays of course a
buyer pays money to the seller so the
buyer will give money they are paying
for the good or service to pay for
something to pay for something so this
is very commonly used in this way I will
pay for it I will pay for lunch
especially if you want to treat your
friend to lunch right I will pay for
lunch I will pay for this shirt so you
pay for something means you give money
in exchange for something else okay now
to grow we're talking a little bit
different here grow it means just to
raise plants or animals do you have a
pet at home maybe you have a pet dog
maybe a cat perhaps a hamster if you
have one you are growing that pet or
your that pet is growing of course
you're raising the animal of course you
usually say raise animals and you say
grow plants this boy here is growing
some plants at his house farmers grow
plants for food and of course then they
sell those plants of course at the
market now compare is very important
when we're talking about buying and
selling because when you go to the store
you have many different kinds of apples
or many different kinds of whatever
product you want to compare those
different types of things compare means
to see how things are different or
similar when we talk about compare
you're looking at the differences and
the similarities right that is part of
comparing something alright you're
seeing how they are different or how
they are similar in the
case this woman is looking at an orange
or an apple and she's got to compare
she's gonna think well which one do I
want which one and maybe it's healthier
for me which one tastes better which one
do my children like more okay if you go
to the store you see many different
kinds of apples you can compare the size
the color you can also compare very
important you compare the price right so
you compare prices and you see all these
apples are less expensive than those
apples
you're comparing and maybe you want to
buy the apples that don't cost so much
okay that you don't need as much money
for so it's very important many people
do that when you go to the store and you
should always do that compare prices
right compare prices to find out which
one you can buy and you can buy easily
compare prices is very common okay we do
have our chart here and you can see our
two main ideas are in this chart we have
goods objects things and we have
services work that people do for other
people let's take a look here what are
the types of goods that we have of
course this sentence unifies ties both
of them together people meet their wants
and needs with goods and services so
what kinds of goods are there first of
all there's a home that's a very very
expensive type of good right but it is a
good property is a good home land that's
a good it's property home is a good a
car is a good a book if you want to read
a book you go to the bookstore and you
buy a book it's a physical object
something you can hold you can touch it
it's a good it's a book food you can
touch it you can hold it you can eat it
it's food it's a good it's a physical
object these are all goods down here
these are services you can't touch your
hold or eat services right services are
work that people do
for you what types of services are there
we can see that the one type of service
is a mail carrier so of course it's a
service that other people do for you
right you don't want to go to your
friend's house in another country and
get the mail from them yourself right no
other people will deliver it to your
house for you let's take a look at a
video here this of course is a mail
carrier now that's kind of a strange
mail box it's a very big mail box
usually mail boxes are smaller but this
person is taking the mail from the house
right putting it in the bag taking the
mail away and this person will deliver
it to somebody else
so maybe this is a business because this
is such a big mail box but usually mail
boxes are smaller and you put your
letters or whatever you want to send in
your mail box
the mail carrier will come and take it
and they will leave mail from other
people for you and of course that's a
service so that's mail carrier another
very common service maybe you use every
day right if you take a bus to school
somebody has to drive the bus that's a
service that is work that they are doing
for you you don't try the bus you're too
young right somebody else drives the bus
for you so a bus driver provides a
service a doctor very important service
right if you are sick or injured you go
see the doctor and the doctor will help
you feel better that's a very important
service finally we have hairstylist hair
stylist is somebody who cuts your hair
or styles your hair we can see a video
here here's a man he is a hair stylist
and he is styling the lady's hair
actually it looks kind of dangerous what
he's doing he's taking the scissors and
I'm not sure what he's doing and then he
comes out the the hair but basically
he's styling her hair she will feel very
happy when he is done because she'll
have a really cool hairstyle right she
will look good and of course this is a
very common service that all of us use
in
Our Lives probably many times during our
lives we get our hair cut and that is a
service it's very hard to cut our own
hair right we don't want to do that so
it's work that somebody else does for
you okay okay let's go over the matching
the words to the definitions here we
have our words they're pretty simple
let's just go over them very quickly
goods service price sell by trade these
are our words remember these words are
very closely related these are things
that we do with goods or services we
sell them we buy them we trade them and
when we sell or buy we're very
interested in what the price is how much
does it cost so this is a good grouping
of words here let's take a look and see
if we can match them to the proper
definition number one if you give
something you have an object or you have
your work right and you give that to
somebody else and you take money in
exchange right so you give something and
you get money what are you doing who are
you you are selling you are a seller
right so you are selling you are a
seller you give something and in
exchange you get money number two to get
something by giving money for it now in
this case this is the opposite of number
one this means you want to get something
and in order to get it you will give
money for it so what are you doing
you are buying and who are you you are a
buyer okay so here you you're selling
your seller here you're buying you are a
buyer oh yeah three things that people
buy or use things things means objects
you can hold them you can touch them you
can put them in your backpack or your
pocket they are things that people buy
or use which one is it of course it's
good
goods are physical things things you can
touch you can hold you can eat them you
can carry them with you okay so those
are goods let's move on to number four
number four we're talking about work
that people do for others now this is
work you can't touch your holder put in
your backpack work that other people do
for you in this case what do we call it
we call it of course a service so
service is work that people do for
others it's a service number five to
give someone one thing and get another
thing from them so in this case there's
no money involved you have one object
the other person has another object you
want to exchange you want to give them
your object and they will give you their
object and of course there's no money
involved so in this case we call this
trade and this is how people actually
exchanged items a long time ago long
long time ago before there was money
they would trade things for example some
one person has a sheep another person
has goats one person you know I want
your goat I'll give you one of my sheep
so they would trade you trade one thing
for another thing six the amount of
money now here is the amount of money
that you have to give to buy something
so when we go into a store and we want
to know how much it costs how much do
these things cost how much money do we
have to give the store to buy this thing
of course we're talking about the price
and remember what I taught you guys when
you go into a store especially like a
clothing store you want to buy shoes you
want to buy pants you want to buy a
shirt look at the price tag what's the
price that tells you the amount of money
that you have to give to the store in
order to buy that good or service of
course
services also have prices okay let's
move on to our chart here
we've talked about this a little bit
right there's two types of people right
when you're exchanging goods when you're
buying or selling I told you guys buyer
and I told you guys seller let's take a
look at the money which way does the
money go which way do the goods or
services go now a buyer of course is
giving money to the seller so the buyer
will give money to the seller and the
seller will give the buyer goods or
services and we can also use another
word here to provide provide goods and
services this is very common grouping of
words provide goods and service says we
also use provide right many stores will
provide goods many companies will
provide services okay and it's very
important that's basically the only two
types of things if you think about
everything out there you can put them
into one category or the other category
it's either a good or it's a service
anything that you can buy out there this
is really a lot of ways how our society
works how our economy works
we all have wants and needs we need
things we need services so how do we get
them we go to a place to get goods or
services it's very interesting okay and
that brings us to our quiz where we're
going to ask a few short questions now I
was just talking about that you can put
anything in the world or most things in
the world you can put into two
categories goods or services remember
the difference if it's a good it's
something that you can touch you can
hold you can save for later use if it's
a service you can't touch it it's work
that other people do for you that's a
service so what we're going to do is
we're going to take a look at each
picture one two and three and figure out
is that a good or is it a service let's
take a look number one is a picture of a
bicycle do you have a bicycle many
people do buy
sicles are fun to ride they're also
easier to get to places than by walking
now a bicycle think about it can you
hold it can you touch it
can you save it at your house and use it
later sure you can do all of those
things with a bicycle so a bicycle is a
thing it's an object therefore it is a
good not a service it is a good it's a
physical object let's look at number two
number two this is an interesting
picture to look at there's a man here
and what is he doing he seems to be you
know hello you know welcome
he's going to drive you to another place
now it could be a taxi driver but I
think it's a little more fancy this guy
looks like a limousine driver a
limousine drops and II a limousine is a
very fancy and expensive taxi a
limousine driver is someone who will
drive you from one place to another so
he is working for you can you hold that
work can you touch that work can you
save that work take it home and save it
for later
no it's work that he is doing for you so
that is a service work that other people
do for you is a service okay
let's take a look at number three now
this woman here she is cutting the hair
of the girl so what is she doing she is
working she is providing what for the
little girl can you can the little girl
hold that can she touch what she's
getting there she can touch her hair but
she can't save that's that thing that
worked for later she has to go back
again and maybe another month and get it
done again this of course is work that
one person is doing for another so that
of course is a service so again just to
summarize goods are things that you can
hold that you can keep for later use
services are work that other people do
for you
for example Drive you from one place to
another or cut your hair two types of
services okay let's go to our true false
questions let's take a look at number
one trade means to see how things are
different or similar does that sound
correct to you trade means to see how
things are different or similar remember
when we talked about trade that means
that I have one object and my friend or
another person doesn't have to be my
friend another person has another object
I want their object they want my object
so we will exchange objects
that's trade this does not sound right
because trade doesn't mean to see how
things are different or similar trade
means to exchange objects with one
another okay so this is false how do we
change it if we change one word if we
change trade what can we change change
trade to one word that means to see how
things are different or similar the word
that we learned is compare when you
compare things you are seeing how things
are different or similar and remember I
told you it's a very good idea to
compare prices when you go to the store
to see you know which is more expensive
which is less expensive number two a
service is a type of work people do for
others
so we just talked about that right in
our mini quiz we talked about a type of
work service we talked about the
limousine driver we talked about the
hairstylist they are doing work for
others they are providing a service so
yes this is a true statement a service
is a type of work people do okay three
sellers pay money for goods or services
we talked about sellers and we talked
about buyers remember if I'm a seller
that means that I am taking money and
giving an object to the buyer so does
this sound right seller's pay
no that's wrong sellers receive money
for goods or services so that's false we
can change well we can change it a
couple of ways one way we can change
sellers receive sellers whoops receive
sellers receive money for goods or
services that would be true or we can
change the noun we can say buyers pay
money so if we change it either sellers
receive money take money get money for
goods or services that's true or we
could say buyers pay money for goods or
services that's true but sellers pay
money now sellers do not pay money
sellers take money
okay well that wraps it up for the
vocabulary section let's take a short
break here we'll come back and take a
look at the reading section okay welcome
back to the reading section we're going
to be talking about goods and services
in this section so let's get started
here we have our topic sentence people
buy goods and services to meet their
wants and needs that is our topic
sentence that's what we're talking about
in this reading passage and specifically
we're talking about goods and we're
talking about services we're going to be
talking about the differences what are
some examples of goods what are some
examples of services what are goods
what are services let's take a look
bread apples cars and toys are all goods
okay so these are objects as we talked
about before you can get bread you can
feel it you can touch it you can eat it
apples same thing cars don't eat cars
right but you can touch them you can
feel them you can use them again and
again cars and of course toys are the
same are all goods these are all
examples of goods types of goods now
when we talk about services you get
services the other one when you take a
bus take a bus because a bus driver is
working for you
when you go to a hairstylist because a
hairstylist cuts your hair or see a
doctor because a doctor takes care of
you
cures you these are all examples of work
that other people do for you so they are
services you get services from these
people people make or grow goods and
sell them in stores so of course people
make goods that would be people who work
in a factory or companies that make
products such as cars or toys people
grow Goods who are the people who grow
goods what do we call those people you
probably remember from a previous lesson
farmers so farmers grow goods for
example bread apples things like that
are weak to make bread really apples
other types of fruit meat those are
things that people will grow in order to
sell in stores you go to the store to
buy them okay they sell services to
people of course all we also sell
services now it's interesting you don't
go to the store really to buy services
right people there's there how do you
get services well let's take a look
they sell services they of course mean
people right people sellers people sell
services to they these people sometimes
come to you with their services that's
very common perhaps at home you've heard
the doorbell ring dingdong and
somebody's there and they want to sell
you a service maybe a newspaper delivery
or maybe they want to sell you you know
a subscription to some magazine but
they're selling you a service a mail
carrier delivers your letters to you so
a mail carrier actually is provided by
the government right and they will come
to your house and deliver your mail of
course you're paying for it but when you
buy stamps you have to pay money to buy
goods and services of course that is how
our economy
works in order to get goods and services
nowadays you pay money for those things
you go to the store with money if you
want somebody to work for you you give
them money it's not so common to trade
things but people still do that much
much more common to buy goods and
services with money you have to pay
money so you pay for your goods or
services when you do this remember it's
very important you should compare the
prices and the quality okay so when you
pay for this refers back to the previous
slide when you pay for something when
you do this when you pay for a good or
service you should compare the prices
and quality I talked about prices which
one is cheaper which one is more
expensive but you can also of course
compare quality quality talks about is
this a better item than this is it an
item that will last for a long time will
it break quickly does it look good what
is the quality um usually when people
talk about quality they're talking about
how long will it last will it break down
quickly if it breaks down quickly it's
cheap it's no good it's bad quality but
if it lasts a long time and it's very
strong than it has good quality right so
you should compare price how much does
it cost and quality how good is it is it
well-made
or is it poorly made now you can also
trade I mentioned this before so usually
in our economy we buy or sell things
using money but another way is you can
also trade goods or services children at
times trade their lunch or small chores
with each other so this is an example
this sentence here is an example of
training and we have two examples
actually one example trade their lunch
remember I told you about the ham and
cheese sandwich that's an example or you
know sometimes maybe
one children will say I have an apple
you have yogurt I want your yogurt so
you trade right you just trade them
along and that you can trade your lunch
that's trading goods right that would be
trading a good the second example small
chores those are services you can trade
services also very interesting for
example let's say you have to clean your
room but you're you're very smart right
and and you're your sister or your
brother wants your help with homework so
what do you do you say okay you clean my
room and I will help you with your
homework now you're trading services not
goods right so you can trade two things
you can trade goods you can also trade
services there's no money involved we
are trading okay so that's two examples
so children at times trade their lunch
or small chores with each other okay so
that's very interesting now we have our
reading skill comparing contrast this is
a very good reading passage to use
comparing contrast because we can
compare and contrast goods and services
okay so we have the differences between
the two and we have the similarities
between the two here let's take a look
we have to fill in these blanks these
are the words we need make pay wants
sell and needs how do these words fit
into these blanks up here let's take a
look
people peep or grow goods and beep them
in stores okay so that's interesting
we're talking about goods so what do
people do with goods how do people
create goods right people make goods or
they grow goods right so you either make
the good like a toy or a car or you grow
the good like apples or oranges and then
what did people do once they make the
good or once they grow the good they
have the good they want to do what they
want to find a buyer right they want to
take them to the store and they will
sell them in stores so they will sell
those goods in stores bread apples cars
and toys are all goods they are goods so
we're talking about goods here
now what about services you get services
when you take a bus go to a hairstylist
or see a doctor right people don't
really make or grow services right but
they offer them you get them when you go
to these places these people work for
you they give you their work they give
you their effort so they are providing
you with a service let's take a look
down here how are they this how are the
goods and services similar people buy
goods and services to meet their what
and what right we're actually talking
about that in the unit topic right so
you we all have things that we you know
that we want or that we need doesn't
matter if you put them you could switch
them around people buy goods and
services to meet their wants and needs
or their needs and once by the way
what's the difference what is a want
some and why is that different from a
need if you say I want something that
means you just like to have it it's not
necessary for you but if you say you
need something that is something that
you kind of need to live what are some
examples for example what is a need a
need is something like clothing it's a
home it's love from your family those
are things that we need to live we need
food to eat
we need those things what's a want a
want is like a toy we don't need it but
it would be nice to have a bicycle is a
once we don't need a bicycle we could
walk or we could take the bus but a
bicycle a bicycle is fun to have it
makes our life easier so a bicycle could
be a want okay so wants and needs and
these are goods and services
you have to do what with money to buy
goods and services which one of our
words down here fits right you have to
of course pay you have to pay money to
buy goods and services if you want those
things if you need those things you have
to use money you have to pay money in
order to get those things okay so that's
our our reading skill comparing contrast
chart let's move on to reading
comprehension questions we talked about
a mail carrier before what does a mail
carrier deliver to you of course a mail
carrier is providing a service
what are they delivering to you and what
are they taking away from your house are
they taking money No the mail carrier
would be very happy in that case uh B
letters or C chores well if you chose
letters that's true mail write letters
is a type of mail write letters and
packages are types of mail so a mail
carrier someone who carries letters and
packages and delivers them to you that
is a mail carrier so they are delivering
letters and also packages to people by
eep to meet their needs and wants so we
talked about this quite a bit in just
recently right people buy what they have
needs
everybody has needs everybody has wants
so what do we buy to meet those needs
and once do we buy lunch and chores that
sounds strange we might buy lunch short
but do we buy chores and buy chores that
sounds very strange chores is what we
have to do around the house right so we
don't buy those we have to do those
people by doctors and mail carriers can
you buy a doctor I want to buy this
doctor I'll take him home with me no we
don't do that that's crazy right we
don't do that with mail carriers either
you don't buy people right that's that's
crazy
people buy you know people to meet their
needs and once no so that leaves us with
see people buy goods and services to
meet their needs and once that is true
because that's what we're talking about
everything that you might want in the
world anything that you might want
anything that you might need is either a
good or it's a service we can break
those down so goods and services are
what we are talking about here moving it
on to number three we have our longer
answers here when you buy a good or
service so when you buy a good or
service what are you doing you what you
can only buy them from a store is that
true no remember we talked about Goods
usually you buy goods at a store but
services do you go to a store to buy a
service no usually people who want to
sell you a service they come to you
right they either come to your house or
they might try to attract you by
television advertisement telephone
advertisement or some printed
advertisement they're trying to sell
your services to you they usually come
to you so you don't go to a store to buy
services right you can only buy them
from a store no that's not true and
besides you can buy goods outside of a
store also you can go directly to a farm
and buy goods there and that's not a
store so a is not correct B when you buy
a good or service you should compare the
quality and prices should you should do
this it's a good idea to do it is that
true absolutely as I've told you before
when you buy something you should
compare especially the price but also
compare the quality how well it is made
see when you buy a good of service you
have to trade a good or service for it
no remember buy and trade are different
things when you buy something you're
using money when you trade you're just
exchanging goods that are similar so
that doesn't make sense B is our only
correct choice for that question number
four let's move on there some people
make or grow goods to sell okay some
people make or grow
goods to sell and I'm very curious what
is and okay a B and C and others sell
services that people want or need okay
so some people make or grow goods to
sell that's true and we're talking about
goods here and others sell services that
people want or need
does that sound correct absolutely we're
talking about goods and services right
how do you get goods and services you
make or grow them what about services
other people they just sell their
services so that's true let's look at B
and C for practice be those people sell
those goods only to mail carriers that's
kind of silly isn't it only mail
carriers will buy goods
that's strange no everybody will buy
goods so that obviously is incorrect
what about C these goods are all called
services no remember goods are not
services they're different right goods
and services are different we don't call
goods services that is absolutely
incorrect incorrect not correct so a is
the only true answer for number four
okay now we have our chart here remember
we talked about a chart and of course
we're talking about goods and services
are very important concept for this unit
people meet their wants and needs how do
they meet their wants and needs buy
goods or services what types of goods
are there here we have property right we
have a place to live this is a very
expensive-looking place to live very
nice place to live what do we call the
place where we live we call it of course
a home did you see that come on in there
get home so that would be a home now we
have over here this is of course a good
it's something that your mom or dad
drives something that you ride in it's
very convenient for you what do we call
this here we call it watch it come into
wahoo
it's a car we call that a car is another
type of good over here you want to read
about something maybe you want to read
about history or you want to read a
funny story or a good story
will you buy you will buy a type of good
that is called
a book so you buy a book over here
you're hungry right you want to eat
something remember food is a type of
good so we have food food is a type of
good and these are all goods
remember goods are things that we can
touch we can hold they are physical
objects down here we have services and
we have pictures for different types of
services
this person is delivering mail so what
do we call this person we call this
person a mail carrier mail carriers
provide a service this person here
perhaps you see this type of person
every day if you ride a bus right they
are driving a bus to your school so of
course we call them a bus driver drives
a bus he is a bus driver this person
here you find this person in a hospital
they will take care of you if you are
sick or injured they will make you feel
better they are course are called
doctors a doctor they will provide a
service this person here when your hair
gets too long what do you do you have to
cut it but don't cut it yourself right
you'll have a very strange hairstyle
right you have to go to somebody else
who will cut it for you and make it look
nice so we call these people hair
stylists hair stylists okay so we have a
good chart here goods remember goods are
things objects physical things you can
touch you can hold services you can't
touch them you can't hold them but they
are work that other people do for you
both of course are very important for us
we have once things that we want we have
things that we need things that we need
in order to live and those things can be
goods or they can be services now what
can we do with those of course we can
buy them we can sell them or we can
trade them so these are all things that
we can do with goods and services so
there's a very interesting unit a very
practical unit for you because if you
think about it this is
what we do every day and throughout your
life you're going to be using goods
you're gonna be using services for
things that you want to need and you're
either gonna be selling them you're
gonna be buying them or you're going to
be trading them so this is a good lesson
to talk about those different types of
ideas well that's it for this lesson
hope you've learned a lot I certainly
had fun I hope you did take care
everybody we'll see you next time
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01