ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood

ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social studeis  01 | Lesson 01
[Family and Home](https://youtu.be/CkcG4P-AcjAâ€‹)
== Family and Home ==
A family is a group of people who live together and care about each other. Family members help each other. Some family members look alike and some look different. Family that is related by blood look alike. A family shares daily life together. In a family, parents and children all have a role. 
The role of parents is to take care of children. The role of children is to listen to their parents. Children must also remember to brush  their teeth after every meal and make the bed after they get up every day.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody how are you doing
welcome back to American textbook
reading we're on lesson one in the
social studies book let's take a look
here we're talking about lesson one
family and home in this unit what will
you discover what are we gonna study
we're gonna discover family members care
about each other care about we'll talk
about that a little bit more as one of
the vocabulary words family members care
about each other of course family
members care about each other family
members love each other first of all
let's start with the first vocabulary
word we are talking about family what is
family so when we talk about family a
group of people a group of people so
remember a family is a group of people
don't say a family as one person right
if you want to say you know like how
many people are in your family don't say
how many families do you have you only
have one family but you might have five
people in your family so how many people
are in your family and those people are
members family members right so how many
family members do you have or how many
people are in your family a family is a
group of people what about this group of
people what do they do
one they live together they live
together and care about they care about
each other right they care about each
other they take care of each other take
care of that's another way take care of
each other means you support each other
you help each other you care about each
other you take care of each other you
help each other especially care about
means you have some emotional feeling
you love each other and that's very
important for families isn't it family
members love each other
okay this is a good picture of a family
usually we have father
ah mother she looks for her young almost
like a daughter daughter and son but
this is a family but remember there are
many kinds of families these days right
it's not just father mother and kids
sometimes there's only one parent but
there's still a family
right sometimes the parents are missing
just brother and sister and the parents
have died so brother and sister they're
still family though okay could be aunt
or uncle they are also family members
okay let's take a look at a video are
actually many videos of different
families what do families do together
there's many different activities as we
can see father and son go fishing
together they have a good time at the
beach father and son playing soccer
together
mother and daughter building sandcastles
at the beach the whole family going bike
riding and finally again the whole
family after their bike riding their
camping in the mountains right so
families do many activities together
there are many family activities
families go out and they do things
together they care about each other they
have fun together they spend time
together now one thing that families do
is share right it's very important to
share things share means to have or use
something with someone not alone if you
use something alone by yourself you're
not sharing it and you shouldn't do that
right if you have something like a toy
some food and there's a person near you
like a brother a sister or even a friend
right you should share that with them
right when they have pizza right you
don't just eat the pizza by yourself
you'll get fat and you're being greedy
right don't do that you want to share
something so don't be greedy
what is greedy greedy is someone who
just wants it for themselves they say no
go away right it's mine
it's only mine don't be greedy share
things right share your pizza share your
toys sure
your time with each other right love
each other and care about each other so
have or use something with someone else
share what you've got it's a good idea
now when we talk about families we can
talk about roles what is a role a role
is like a position or it's like
something that people do for example of
the part a person plays in a group is a
role there are different kinds of roles
in a family for example there is a
mother role the mother has a role it's a
part she plays it's not really playing
she's she's fulfilling it but she's
playing that role she's playing a part
you can think about what actions does a
mother usually or typically do well the
mother takes care of the kids usually at
home if she's not working she'll take
care of the kids at home
she'll prepare meals usually she washes
the clothes or she cleans the house
those are traditional roles not all
mothers do this of course but those are
that would be a mother role what about a
father's role a father usually typically
goes out and earns money he comes home
he also teaches the the kids how to play
sports right he takes them fishing like
we saw in the video
these are father roles he gives advice
to the children of course mom gives
advice to these are roles for parents
but kids also have roles to write
children's roles children and we can
also talk about son and daughter but
usually we talk about children because
they have the same roles their role is
to obey or follow their parents clean
their rooms
study hard those are the roles that
children have in the family right also
to love and respect each other
and to help their parents out when they
can okay so everybody has a different
role in a family everybody has certain
actions that they play in a group they
fulfill those actions they do those
actions that is their role what is your
role in your family
okay that's a good question to ask of
course help now families like I said
they care about each other they help
each other to help is to give someone
assistance and we can also took a take a
look at that where to assist is also a
verb to assist to assist means to help
to help someone or to assist someone is
to help them overcome some difficulty
right if somebody's having some hard
time or they're struggling to do
something you help them you help them
succeed you help them achieve their goal
you give them assistance you help them
do what they want to do and that's very
important families help each other okay
before I talked about care about right
talked about care about I talked about
take care of you take care of other
people take care of you care about you
could also say care about you care for
somebody it means to give attention so
you give attention to someone or
something mother cares about her kids of
course she gives them attention she
cares for the kids
that means she gives him help she takes
care of them she supports them and of
course she helps them she gives them
attention her attention is focused on
the kids and of course we care about
each other it's not just the mother's
role to care about the kids it's also
the father's role it's also the older
brother or sisters role to take care of
the younger kids so a very important
role for all family members is to care
about each other we care for each other
we take care of each other
that's really what family it does and
that's a very important part of the
family you always take care of your
family okay now another thing we can
talk about something interesting about
families is that people inside the
family remember the family as a group
there are different members of the
family different people in the family
but the family members
like they look alike and they might act
alike
in other words in the same way so people
can look alike
for example people tell me I look like
my father right so my father and I we
look alike but people can also act alike
they behave in the same way and that's
interesting my brother and I we kind of
think the same way so we think alike
sometimes we do the same things we we
act alike right so you can look alike
you can act alike it means in the same
way okay so of course family members do
these things they look alike like
brothers especially twins these are
twins right twins of course look alike
but even brothers my brother is three
years younger than I am right oh we act
alike right my father is of course a lot
older than I am but we look alike right
so you can look alike with your family
members even if you aren't twins are the
same age people look alike and they act
alike
because they're from the same family
brush now here's a word that's
interesting with this with family at
home it's kind of it's one of our
products responsibilities to take care
of ourselves right brush means to clean
with something made of short hairs so if
you look at this baby this is a very
smart baby right usually babies don't do
this by themselves but this is a smart
baby because this baby is brushing her
his I'm not sure brushing her teeth at a
very early age so brush when we talk
about brush there's a couple of things
we usually talk about brush your teeth
or what else do you brush you brush your
hair brush your hair and remember use a
possessive pronoun your hair his hair
her hair don't say brush the teeth the
teeth whose teeth the teeth over here
know you brush your teeth
right he's brushing his teeth he's not
brushing the teeth he's brushing his
teeth she's brushing her hair right
brush your hair so use possessive
pronoun your his or her with brush brush
something you usually brush your teeth
near you brush your hair that's about it
you don't brush your skin that's crazy
brush your hair brush your teeth those
are the two main ones okay
this is another thing that you need to
do as part of the family so you know as
part of a family you have different
things to do these are chores let's talk
about that a little bit chores
of course one shore that you need to do
is to take care of yourself brush your
teeth maybe brush your hair in the
morning chores are work that you do
around the house one chore is to make
the bed make the bed to tidy the blanket
or covers to tidy a blanket or covers on
your bed when you get up in the morning
you should make your bed tidy it up so
your mother doesn't come in and say hey
your bed is messy your bed is messy
messy means it's all you know messy it's
all everywhere the the blanket is over
the pillows are all over the place
maybe the pillows are on the floor
that's messy right clean it up tidy it
up make the bed that's one of the chores
you need to do around the house what's
another one maybe you could say set the
table set the table one of the roles of
children is to do chores around the
house put dishes on the table put the
dishes and the silverware on the table
ready to eat so mom says set the table
make the bed take out the trash clean
your room these are all chores that
people do and we have chores and
Families okay so let's talk about family
we have our chart here for family what
do families do what are characteristics
about families so one thing that
families do is they help each other and
that's part of taking care of each other
right they help each other so they help
the little kid to walk right the help
the kid to walk they help the kids to go
somewhere mom and dad teach
the children how to you know do things
very important they help kids do things
care about each other of course families
care about each other right father's
very interested in educating the
children so his mom that's the parents
role right so they help each other they
carry they care about each other they
love each other right they also shared
daily life with each other of course
they live together but just living
together it doesn't mean that you share
your life right don't go home go to your
room and close the door and be alone
right
share your life with up with everybody
right so you might have chores to do
paint a new room together right go
camping together go fishing together go
bike riding together share your daily
life with each other that's an important
part of being a family and of course
over here we can see a characteristic
about a family is that they are alike to
each other right they kind of look alike
right maybe they are brothers so they
seem to have the same kind of eyes the
same hairstyle they are alike to each
other
it doesn't mean exactly the same it
means alike similar to each other okay
so alike can also be similar not exactly
the same but kind of alike similar okay
similar or alike to each other okay
let's move on to our matching exercise
we just went over a lot of vocabulary
talking about families let's match the
words to their definitions here we have
our words and down below we have the
definitions let's take a look at the
words first word family family next one
share share role role help
that's easy care about care about and
alike alike so let's take a look at
these words in the same way in the same
way so if people look in the same way or
they act in the same way what is that of
course they are alike so I gave you the
example I look like my father I and my
father are alike it looks my brother and
I act alike we are
like we act in the same way so we are
alike so family members are alike too to
give someone assistance remember the
word assist is another word for this to
assist somebody means to help somebody
so if you help somebody you give them
assistance you help them get what they
want
you do something so that they can
achieve their goals you help them three
the part of the part the parts a person
plays in a group so in a group you have
many different people and usually in
that group different people do different
things right some people do chores
some people make dinner some people go
out and earn money all of these
different things are what they are a
role there are different roles that
family members or group members have by
the way it's not just families that have
rules right
any group might have if you have a
soccer team right you have a coach the
coach fills a role right you have people
who play in the front forwards or
strikers their role is to make the goal
right you have people defending the
goalie of the the goal a goalie for
example everybody has different roles in
a group and a family is just another
group where different members have
different roles that they play okay
let's move on number four to have or use
something with someone so if you have
something are you using a thing with
somebody else right not alone you're not
keeping it all to yourself you're using
it with somebody else what are you doing
you share that thing so if you have
pizza don't eat it all yourself share it
with your brother your sister your
parents right share the things that you
have that's very important number five
to give attention to someone or
something so when you give attention to
someone thing or something and you you
especially when you want to help that
thing you care about it care about means
to give something attention you give
attention to someone or something and
especially in the case
of you give good attention right you
give attention to something it's not
just watching it's not just online
looking at it but it's giving attention
in a good way giving attention and
helping or caring or loving something
that's really caring about something or
someone six a group of people who live
together and care about each other right
that's very important we just talk about
care about is not just paying attention
it's also helping each other loving each
other that's important part of this
group of people so what group of people
do that they live together they care
about each other of course they are a
family live together and they care about
each other
and they share their daily lives with
each other okay so those are our words
those are some definitions okay now
we've come to our chart that shows the
daily life of a family so we take a look
at this the daily life daily means from
the morning to the evening and of course
into night so the daily life what does a
family do together the daily life of a
family let's talk about that let's take
a look at the pictures here we have a
picture of a family father mother boy
girl
lots of perfect family isn't it people
say the perfect family mother father
girl and boy right not all families are
like that of course but you know it's
kind of like some lot of people think
well that's the perfect combination one
boy one girl anyway what are they doing
it's the morning time they're sitting
around the table they're eating together
in the morning they are eating breakfast
so families eat breakfast together and
you know maybe not all families eat
breakfast together everybody's busy but
it's an important thing families should
do at least on the weekends another very
important thing that families should do
perhaps more important than breakfast is
to have dinner especially in America
it's very important many families feel
it's very important to eat dinner
together in the evening so the kids are
home from school dad's home from work
mom's made dinner that's very important
it's a very important tradition of
family is to have at least have dinner
together have lunch together that's hard
dad's off at work kids are in school
everybody's away right but everybody
comes back together in the evening you
should have dinner together and that's a
traditional value again modern life
people are getting busy it's not so easy
to do but at least have dinner together
have meals together next one learn to do
things the day's very busy right so
during the day of course kids are
learning and and they learn from their
parents so in this case a mother is
teaching daughter how to ride a bike
the daughter is learning how to ride a
bike from her mother and of course this
is very important parents teach their
kids children learn from their parents
so that's another thing that families do
together now over here what is she doing
she's making the bed and this is what we
talked about do chores this is a very
important part of being a family people
do chores one of those chores is to make
the bed okay that's an important thing
to do every family every kid in a family
usually has chores to do make the bed
clean the room take out the garbage set
the table wash the dishes it's a lot of
chores okay finally over here brush
teeth it could be another chore that you
know it's not we don't really consider
it a chore it's something that you
should do to take care of your health of
course remember they are brushing their
teeth there's two people so we used the
possessive pronoun they are brushing
their teeth
he is brushing his teeth he is brushing
his teeth they are not brushing the
teeth they are brushing their teeth
okay so brushed our teeth and maybe
that's you know in the morning they
brush your teeth then they brush their
hair okay so these are different things
that a family does just for different
things there's many things that families
do together
these are just four examples okay let's
take a look at the pictures and complete
the sentence this is a sentence down
here we have all these different
pictures how can we complete the
sentence by looking at the the at the
pictures in a family parent
and children all have a or an what do we
fill in here
now look at this the children the child
the daughter's helping mom looks like
she's helping clean up the backyard
right that's a chore right that's a type
of chore now over here the father is
showing the his son how to wash the
dishes right so the son is learning from
the father the father is doing something
he has what does he have he's he's a
teacher right the the boy is the student
right they both have parts to play in
this situation over here poor girl she
looks very happy doesn't she but she has
she's doing her chores right she's
cleaning the bathroom kids do chores
because that's the part that they play
in the group so in all of these pictures
we can see people who are playing what
they are playing a role so in a family
parents and children all have a role
right children do chores that's their
role parents teach that's their role
again children do chores they help clean
up the house that's their role so yeah
sure chores are part of our roles but
again there are many different kinds of
roles that that people in the family
play ok we've come to our true or false
questions let's take a look at them
remember if the question is true we
Circle T if it's false we Circle F
brothers look alike so two brothers in
the same family
do they look alike yeah usually they do
that's true so brothers do look alike
number two people in a family do not
help each other this is not important if
they're in the family and they don't
have to help each other is that true
does that sound right that doesn't sound
right right it should be the other way
people in a family help each other
that's the way it should be it's
supposed to be that way one of the
definitions of family one of the ideals
or values that we have about family is
that family members help each other it's
very important it's important about our
concept of
so people and a family help each other
that's very important you help your mom
and dad you help your brothers and
sisters it's important so we have to
change that sentence right it's a false
sentence okay
people in a family help each other not
the other way around
okay number three a family does not live
together so typically a family doesn't
live together right is that sound right
it doesn't sound right
a family lives together a family does
live together a family lives together
right you live with your parents right
you live with your brothers and sisters
yes there are some times when families
don't live together those are some cases
but normally usually supposed to be
families live together in the same house
so we have to change that so that's
false
also so we have true false and false
okay we're going to take a short break
here and take a look at the reading
section in just a bit
don't go away okay welcome back we're
continuing to talk about family in the
home and we're doing the reading section
right now let's take a look the first
sentence a family is a group of people a
group of people remember a family is a
group not just one person it's a group
many people who live together there's
two things here one they live together
and two they care about each other so
whoa whoa two fast slow okay who live
together live together is one thing that
families do together another thing is
that they care about each other so
there's two things that families do they
live together they care about each other
family members right remember we're
talking about family members because
they're members of a group family
members help each other that's important
right it's very important for families
to do some family members look alike now
some right it's not all right it's some
because again I gave you the example
before of my brother my brother is
actually taller than me he's younger but
he's taller and he doesn't really look a
lot like me
right he's got blonde curly hair my hair
is brown and straight so we're brothers
but we don't really look alike but we do
think alike we do act alike so not all
family members look alike of course
there are some differences some family
members look alike
some of them do and some look different
I gave you the example my brother now on
the other hand I look like my father my
father and I look like each other so
some family members look alike
some look different okay family that is
related by blood that's an interesting
point what does this mean by blood
family that is related by blood look
alike take a look at this family here
this is the father this is the mother
right and these are their children now
when we think about blood right we're
talking about people who have the same
mother and father people who have the
same mother and father their blood comes
from two different people they share
that blood right so for example this
girl's blood and this boy's blood will
be very similar because these two people
got together and made these children
these children are a combination of
these peoples DNA and blood right and
the things that make up their body so
that the children will be related by
blood right they have the same blood in
their bodies but the father and the
mother they came from different families
they're not related by blood how are
they related they're related by law so
by blood or by law okay think about that
by law means that they went and got
married a marriage certificate or when
people get married they get married by
law they don't have the same mother and
father they shouldn't have the same
mother and father brothers and sisters
don't marry each other right that's
crazy
and it also cousins don't marry each
other because cousin cousins have the
same blood also because cousins might
share the same uncle or they might share
the same aunt if they do then they are
from the same blood they don't get
married that's not good
right you should marry somebody who's
from a different family obviously so
there's two ways to be related to
somebody one way is by blood the other
way is by law okay so that's what that
means family that is related by blood
look alike
so probably the sister and the brother
will probably look alike we're not
always but usually they will look alike
okay that's interesting by blood or by
law okay
a family shares daily life together it
means they do things together of course
they're living together they care about
each other they do many things together
in a family parents and children all
have a role or role as a part to play
remember some people are teachers some
people are learners some people are
helpers some people prepare things or
clean things everybody has their own
role to play in a family what is the
role of parents the role of parents what
do they do they take care of I taught
you that before take care of children
they look out for children that's
another one look out for it's these are
all words by the way that mean the same
thing look out for so care about care
for look out for take care of parents do
all of these things in the same thing
but they do that they do that for the
children they help their children grow
they care about their children they love
their children okay let's move on the
role of children we talked about the
role of parents is to take care of the
children but what about the children
what is their role the role of the
children is to listen to their parents
right that's important children must
listen to their parents when the parents
tell them something children should
listen and follow or obey their parents
children must also remember to brush
their teeth after every meal so yeah
another role of the children is to stay
healthy but that's the role of everybody
really but to brush their teeth
you know brush their hair to look nice
brush their hair teeth after every meal
that's interesting after every meal we
usually have three meals in a day
you must brush your teeth three
times a day after breakfast after lunch
after dinner after every meal also they
should make the bed after they get up
every day so when you wake up from your
bed
make your bed of course that's just one
chore and as I said before there are
many chores children have the rule to do
chores around the house many families
have that so some of course all children
they should make their bed clean their
room some children like when I was
growing up my job my role was to wash
the dishes after dinner my younger
brother his role was to set the table
right
my older sister well actually she washed
the dishes then she got older and then I
had to wash the dishes okay so we
changed roles as we got older but every
kid might have a different chore or
different roles to do in in the in the
family okay and these can change as
people get older but we all have chores
and these are some of the chores that
children do the main role of children is
to listen to their parents okay our
reading skill is main idea and details
the main idea of this reading passage is
that family members care about each
other we care about each other by
fulfilling different roles and doing
different things in the family what are
the details that support this idea we
have four details
we have four blanks and we have four
words to fill in the blanks the words
are roll alike help and shares let's put
those words in the blanks first of all
family members beep each other what do
they do
do they roll alike help or shares of
course they help each other that's part
of taking care of each other looking out
for each other they help each other some
family members look beep and some look
different what's the opposite of
different do you remember what is the
opposite of different some family
members look alike
they look in they have similar looks
they not exactly the same unless they're
twins some twins do look exactly the
same but
usually family members look alike they
look kind of similar they look similar
to each other they look alike a family
beep daily life together what does a
family do with their daily life remember
they're doing it together not alone
they're doing it together so a family
shares daily life together to share is
to use or to have something with another
person and of course the family shares
or uses their life or has their life
together in a family parents and
children all have what we talked about
this a lot right we talked about the
roles that children and parents have
parents and children all have roles
right parents have different roles than
children and sometimes those roles
change as people get older okay let's
move on let's go over the reading
comprehension questions how well do you
remember the reading number one let's
fill in the blank we have three choices
the blankets the beep of parents is to
take care of the children so we just
read the reading passage and we found
out that the what the brush of parents
the role of parents the share of parents
it's got to be the role the role of
parents what is their role their role is
to take care of children
remember role can also be what people
should do what should people do the role
of parents is to take care of their
children
number two a family shares what together
what did they share do they share their
blood together here you can have my
blood maybe I can have some of yours
that's kind of weird right
so I wouldn't say a family shares their
blood with each other although you know
you can't say brother and sister share
their blood but mother and father they
don't share their blood together right
they have they come from different
families they have different blood so
that's not appropriate a family shares
what daily life together oh that's what
we were talking about right
of course they live together they do
things during the day and they share
their daily life with each other right
parents will teach kids kids will do
chores around the house they'll go out
they'll have fun they'll go fishing
camping bike riding they share their
daily life together they share
they're happy moments and they're sad
moments together it's important part of
the family
okay let's well number C is of course
brushing teeth family shares of brushing
teeth together that's kind of silly you
know they might but it's not it's not
it's not an appropriate answer it more
appropriate its daily life right okay
magic you should you brush your teeth
with your mom all the time
no it's kind of silly isn't it okay so
anyway they share their daily life with
each other let's move on to number three
okay number three children must remember
to do what so we were talking about
roles before right children must
remember to do something as part of
their role what is what is a role of a
child what is one role of the child or a
couple of roles
children must remember - what a make
their teeth and brush their bed make
their teeth so they're putting their
teeth together with a glue and paper and
putting it in do you do that
do you make your teeth that sounds weird
right brush your bed so you take a brush
nice bed you know you can brush your bed
that's weird
but hey look at this it's it look at
this closely you can do something
interesting I think they're trying to
trick you by switching these words so if
for example if you switch these words
that would be correct right if you said
brush their teeth and make their bed
okay that fits but they're trying to
trick you
they're you know they switch the verbs
so it doesn't make sense it sounds very
silly you don't make your teeth and put
them in and you don't brush your bed
that's very silly you you brush your
teeth and make your bet okay number B or
letter B brush their teeth after every
meal that sounds right remember because
we brush teeth and when do we do it
after every meal after breakfast after
lunch after dinner so children must
remember to brush their teeth after
every meal that is the correct answer
let's look at C just in case brush their
bed again that's silly right we talked
about it you don't brush your bed so
obviously C is not correct after they
get up yeah so that doesn't make sense
you don't brush your bed silly okay
number four each family member has a
roll right each family member has a roll
so it's gonna say what the children's
role is and we can see many of these
answers are going to talk about the
children's role and they're also going
to talk a baby about their parents let's
look at each answer in turn children a
take care of their parents and make
their beds do children take care of
their parents okay when they're young
when they're young they don't take care
of the parents the parents take care of
the children now it's true that when
they get older sure children should take
care of their parents but by that time
the children are adults right but yeah
it could be true but that's not really a
great answer let's skip number a for
right now let's look at B children
listen to other children and their
parents listen to other parents is that
their role so if I'm a child in my
family
I should listen to a child in another
family that's my role and my parents
should listen to the parents of the
other families no that's not their role
you know because they should they don't
take advice from other families right
you take advice from within your family
from older to younger right so that
doesn't sound right B doesn't sound
right what about C children listen to
their parents and their parents take
care of them that sounds right
children's role is to listen to their
parents that's true children should
listen to their parents and follow their
parents advice and rules and parents
take care of them yeah parents take care
of the children they care for them they
help them they assist them so C is our
best answer
amb sound a little strange right c is
our best answer to to talk about because
these are the roles of a family children
listen to their parents and their
parents take care of the children those
are the different roles okay let's take
a look at our chart we're talking about
family what does family do together what
what are characteristics about a family
first of all we saw the picture here
here's mom here's dad here's the the
baby daughter I think and what are the
parents doing of course parents will
help you there there baby
they will help each
so when the baby gets older of course
the baby will have chores to do around
the house
so the baby will help the parents
everybody helps each other in a family
it's important part of a family over
here here's the father he's looks like
he's reading a book to his son and his
daughter and of course why is he doing
that why does he take the time to do
that
why is he paying attention to his kids
because he loves them so he cares about
his kids parents of course care about
their children children care about their
parents everybody cares about each other
it's an important part to gain of of a
family now when the family gets together
and does things together right they are
sharing their daily life with each other
they're doing things together so a
family will share daily life with each
other family members will share their
daily lives with each other
and that's an important part of family
as well what about these two kids here
they look like brothers right what can
we say about them do they look alike
yeah they kind of look alike they might
also act alike right remember you can
look alike
you can also act alike and that's very
true about family members family members
will typically or usually look alike
they will also vary usually act in the
same ways they will act alike okay so
this is unit 1 from the social studies
book 2 we're talking about family and
home we've learned a lot of interesting
things about family we've talked about
the roles of the family members we've
talked about families that care about
each other and that's very important
families do care about each other
most families live together they share
their daily lives together so you know
don't take your family for granted in
other words think of deeply about your
family think about your role in the
family think about how important your
family is to you ok we'll see you guys
next time take care everybody
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01