ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 02
[Celebration of Holidaysâ€‹](https://youtu.be/Ckrp_HVD3LI)

In the United States, there are special times that people celebrate.
Independence Day is a national holiday to honor Americaâ€™s independence from the United Kingdom. 
Americans also have a national holiday called
Thanksgiving Day. 
They celebrate the long-time custom to give thanks for the yearâ€™s harvest. 
There are also special days to remember the hard work of people in society. 
Veterans Day and Memorial Day honor military heroes in the history of the United States.
Religion and folk tales are shared customs in society. 
Some people have belief in God. These people also celebrate special times, like Christmas. 
In the United States, there are many special dates on the calendar to celebrate being American.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading and Brian Stewart we're
on lesson two in our book and we're
talking about celebration of holidays
are you excited about the holidays are
there any holidays coming up of course
every country has their own unique
holidays some countries of course share
holidays there are holidays that are
celebrated in many countries but of
course other countries have their own
holidays or different types of
celebrations and then we're going to
take a look at that in this unit we will
discover national holidays of the United
States so we're gonna focus on the
holidays that are in the United States
we're talking about the national
holidays so holidays that have that are
unique or particular to the United
States and of course every country has
their own holidays let's take a look
first of all when we talk about holidays
what do we do think about that what do
you do on a holiday you have fun right
you do certain things to celebrate that
holiday and that's what we're talking
about to celebrate is to do something
special for a day or an event there are
certain things that we do on different
holidays right on Christmas we exchange
gifts those are special things that we
do on Thanksgiving in America we'll take
a look at that we eat a certain type of
food and we all gather around so we do
special or unique things on every
holiday and that's how we celebrate
that's how we show that it's the holiday
we act differently we dress differently
we do some certain things on that day to
celebrate or to have fun or to honor or
to recognize that holiday and we call
that celebrate to celebrate also we can
also talk about customs celebrations
holidays are unique to different
countries and also to different cultures
each country or group in a country will
have a certain way of doing things
especially in holidays we call these
things customs custom is the usual way
of doing something doing something or
behaving in a certain way in a group or
a country for example if they have this
looks like a wedding and there are
certain types you know everybody gets
married in all over the world right we
have weddings all over the world but how
people get married is different
according to custom in this country they
wear certain types of clothing they do
certain types of behavior they kneel
down a person puts a nice wreath on a
man's head there are different styles of
wedding and those different styles have
to do with custom so the usual way of
doing something in a group or a country
think about that of course you have many
customs in Korea that you do things in a
certain way that other countries don't
do these of course are customs okay when
we talk about holidays of course we need
to know when are those holidays we need
to look at a calendar a calendar a
calendar is a set of pages there are
many pages there a set there all
together a set of pages to show days
weeks and months of a year so if we look
at a calendar we can very easily see
that we can see the month
it's March we know the year it's 2012 we
can see the days right and there are
seven days in a week and we can see the
dates so we can find out exactly what
day it is and if we look closely
sometimes we can see there are holidays
this is March 2012 there are no
red-letter days sad there's no holidays
in this count
for March too bad the only red-letter
days are Sunday because those are the
days that we do not work or do not go to
school but no other holidays it's kind
of sad okay but anyway so a set of pages
to show days weeks and months of the
year of course the calendar will also
show the holidays okay a national
holiday we're done about holidays but
what is the difference of a national
holiday as opposed to just a holiday
well a national holiday is a day to
honor an important person or event so
each country has their own history right
each country has important leaders like
for example politicians or other people
that work very important to a society
but it's not just about people it can
also be about an event something that
happened in the history of that country
if we want to remember that event that
happening or we want to remember that
person say that was a great person they
really helped our country then we can
set aside a special day a holiday to
honor that person or event to honor
means to remember and to remember in a
good way
wow that was an important person or that
was an important event we should
remember it our children should remember
it because it's very important to our
nation then it becomes a national
holiday
right it's important to our nation to
our country it's a national holiday and
those are what national holidays are
there are many kinds of holidays right
and some holidays are the same for all
different countries around the world but
some countries have their own special
holidays let me give you an example
Christmas is not a national holiday
Christmas is celebrated in many
different countries no one country can
say Christmas is ours no
they don't say that right but for
example if you have a holiday to honor a
past president then that is only a
holiday in that country and that would
be a national holiday so there's a
difference between regular holidays and
national holidays okay now I told you
about you know national holidays on or
people or events people can be heroes
right a hero what is a hero a man or
woman who is very brave very brave and
tries to help others that's the
definition ill there's many definitions
of Heroes this is one definition of a
hero a person who's brave and they do
things to help other people to help
their society and those are heroes and
we celebrate heroes we honor heroes by
having national holidays after them okay
now we also talked about a folk tale a
folk tale is an old traditional story of
a group of people so again different
countries will have different histories
right and a long if country if the
country is very very old they will have
very very old stories that go back you
know to a time when people maybe didn't
keep very good historical records they
didn't write down history but they
remembered these stories from a long
long time ago
these are folk tales okay sometimes
people will have holidays about folk
tales okay okay
also religion religion is faith faith is
like belief in the existence of a God
because there are many different types
of religions we can't say God because
there are different gods there's a
different God for Christians a different
God for Muslims a different God for Jews
so there are many different gods so we
say 'god faith in the existence of a god
one of many gods
on what their religion is and of course
religion is important when we talk about
celebration of holidays because there
are many religious holidays different
countries will have different religious
holidays for example Christmas is a
Christian holiday but Passover is a
Jewish holiday
so in Israel they will celebrate certain
holidays according to the Jewish
religion and in other countries they'll
celebrate holidays depending if it's a
Muslim country or if it's a Christian
country they'll have different religious
holidays
ok belief we talked about belief right
belief is a strong feeling of trust in
someone or something so if you have
belief in somebody it means you trust
them Trust is an interesting word trust
means that you believe that that person
will do things to help you not to hurt
you
if you trust somebody they will you
think they will help me they would never
hurt me I have trust in them don't say I
believe them by the way that's an
interesting thing if you say I believe
you that means I believe you're telling
the truth if you just feel that you that
the other person won't hurt you you
trust them but if you believe somebody
that doesn't mean necessarily that you
trust them it just means that you
believe they're telling the truth ok so
that's a kind of a look a little bit of
difference be careful between those two
words trust and believe if you believe
somebody you believe they are telling
the truth
they are not lying if you trust them
that means you think they will never
hurt you they will always help you so
it's a little bit of a difference but if
you have a belief in something belief in
something then you have a strong feeling
of trust in someone or something it
means you have belief in something you
believe that it's true you think ah it's
true I believe in that
it's okay so it's a little bit different
okay honor if you honor somebody like
you honor a person who is important for
your country or you want to show honor
for an event then that means you show
respect for you show respect for
something you should reso respect for
obviously older people in your community
parents teachers but you also show
respect for your national symbols you
show respect for your flag you honor
your flag you show respect for important
people in the past heroes or other
people important for your country you
show respect for those things because
they're important to our society so you
show respect for someone or something
that means you honor it okay now we've
come to our first chart we're talking
about of course national holidays of the
United States so we're just focusing on
one country and that happens to be the
United States here so we're looking at
three national holidays of the United
States and of course there are many
holidays in the United States we're just
looking at three of them we're looking
at Memorial Day Independence Day and
Thanksgiving Day so let's talk about
each holiday and what they are for and
what do people do on these holidays
first we have Memorial Day now we can
see a couple of old soldiers in the
picture with the American flag what are
they doing look we'll talk about that
first of all let's talk about when is
Memorial Day it's the last Monday of May
the last Monday of May that means that
this day changes the date every year
because the last Monday of May is not
always May 24th or May 25th it could be
different days but it's a Monday it's
always a Monday why do people do that
that's an interesting point because if
you think about it Saturday and Sunday
are holidays are days off they're not
really holidays they're just days off
you
don't go to school or work on Saturday
or Sunday so if you have a holiday on
Monday or Friday now you have three days
off yeah right
usually the weekend is two days Saturday
Sunday but if you have a holiday on
Monday or Friday it's a three-day
weekend a three-day weekend so it's a
longer weekend people have more time to
enjoy themselves and to celebrate the
holiday and that's why many holidays are
like the last Monday or the first Friday
of a month they put it on those
different days for that reason so it's
the last Monday of the May what do
people do on Memorial Day what is
Memorial Day about we saw the two
soldiers here right think about the name
though Memorial Day Memorial sounds like
memory to remember right we on Memorial
Day Americans honor heroes who died in
wars so these guys thankfully
fortunately they did not die in the wars
but they are soldiers they served in the
wars right on Memorial Day we honor
soldiers who went and fought in the
country's Wars and it's a you know it's
a day to remember all of the soldiers in
every war in the history of that country
because unfortunately Wars do happen and
the people in the country want to
remember the heroes who fought for their
country and sacrificed their lives made
the ultimate sacrifice
they died in a war so we want to honor
them and their friends or their their Co
their soldiers who fought with them want
to remember the people who died and
fought in those Wars and that's what
Memorial Day is all about to never
forget those people who made the
ultimate sacrifice for their country the
soldiers who fought in the wars for the
country so that's what Memorial Day is
all about and usually they have parades
and soldiers will either march or
they'll ride in a car they'll wear their
uniform
and it's a day to remember the military
heroes of the country okay that's
Memorial Day
what about Independence Day of course we
can figure that out by thinking about
the word Independence to get
independence from something that's
always July 4th that's a set date that
doesn't change it's not like a Monday or
a Friday or a Thursday that's always the
same it's July 4th because on this day
is the day when Americans celebrate the
Declaration of Independence it's when
Americans told Great Britain hey we
don't want to be your colony anymore we
don't want to be part of your country
anymore we want to be an independent
country and of course there was a war
fought with Great Britain a long time
ago and that's when America became a
nation ok you guys also have an
Independence Day many countries around
the world have Independence Day your
Independence Day is on August 15th isn't
it that's the day that Korea became
independent from Japan so many countries
have their own Independence Day their
own national holiday to remember or to
celebrate when their country became
independent of course this is a
celebration of the Declaration of
Independence which is a document it's
like a letter that the Americans sent to
the King of Great Britain saying we want
to be independent so that's the holiday
for that and of course it's a very
national holiday you can see symbols of
an American nation the American flag the
Statue of Liberty these are very
important symbols to Americans and they
have to do with the fact that America as
is an independent country okay so that's
Independence Day there's also
Thanksgiving Day Thanksgiving Day is
very similar to the Korean Chuseok right
it's a day and Thanksgiving Day by the
way is a holiday that's celebrated in
many countries it's not really a
national holiday it's a holiday that is
celebrated in different ways in
different countries
but of course it's a holiday based on
the fact that we're thanking for the
year's harvest so every country you know
every country grows food right and all
countries have that tradition where
farming was very important where you
grow food in the fall the food is ready
to be picked you get that food and then
you celebrate hey we have a lot of food
let's have a celebration so Thanksgiving
Day is the fourth Thursday of November
so this is another one of these holidays
right these two holidays the dates
change every year it's the fourth
Thursday of November
why Thursday I'm not sure but anyway it
is the Thursday and of course
Thanksgiving Day is usually Thursday and
people don't usually work on Friday so
they usually take the day off Thursday
Friday and of course Saturday and Sunday
there are many things that people will
do on Thanksgiving Day
of course one of the things they do is
eat a lot of food because they're
celebrating they have so much food right
that's what the traditional holiday is
so Americans give their thanks for the
year's harvest they give their thanks to
the fact that there's a lot of food that
the farmers have grown of course in
modern days we don't really think about
that as much we're not connected to
farming a lot more people don't farm but
we still use that day to give thanks not
just for the food but also for our
families for our lives our careers it's
kind of grown or evolved into a
different type of day let's take a look
at the video
now this video is has to do with a
parade that's very famous and its
associated with Thanksgiving Day we're
not looking at somebody's house and
seeing them eat the turkey that's what
they do in their homes but in New York
let's take a look here in New York there
is a famous Thanksgiving Day Parade it
just kind of evolved I think a
department store in New York started
this parade and it just became part of
the traditional part of Thanksgiving
people come out they look at the parade
if you're in New York
you do this some people will watch it on
television another thing that Americans
will do on Thanksgiving Day they will
watch football football of course as an
American sport not soccer
but football where they carry the ball
and they throw it right and that's also
very important they always have
important games on Thanksgiving Day so
the guys will watch TV they'll watch the
football game and usually the women
unfortunately they have to do most of
the work and they cook the turkey and
they prepare the meal but of course
modern families are changing now the men
are helping and women of course are also
interested in sports but the main thing
about Thanksgiving is sitting down all
together at a table eating turkey and
many side dishes and being together with
your family that's very important many
people travel from school or their work
to be with their parents on Thanksgiving
Day it's a very important holiday for
travel ok so those were the three main
holidays that we talked about in the
United States let's talk about this
two-hour exercise we're gonna match our
the words with the definitions so we
have celebrate celebrate custom custom
calendar calendar national holiday
national holiday hero and folktale
folktale let's take a look at the
definitions number one an old
traditional story of a group of people
it's this story now when we take a look
at story story is very similar to tale a
tale and the story is very similar so
when we think about an old traditional
story
we're talking about a folk tale folk is
a word for people who are a long time
ago so it's about a group of people a
folktale is an old traditional story of
a group of people so that answer would
be folktale number two to do something
special to behave in a certain way to to
wear certain clothes or to act in a
certain way to do some type of thing
or activity for a day or an event what
do we call that well we would call that
to celebrate to that we're recognizing
that hey this is a holiday let's
celebrate the holiday and of course
there are many ways to celebrate
something you can have a meal together
you can go watch a parade you can watch
a football game on television right the
Thanksgiving Day football game for
example of course parades are very
common - to go and look we saw a couple
examples of that we saw the old soldiers
in a parade we saw the Thanksgiving
Parade in New York how do you spell
parade PA are a de parade so you do
something special for a day or event one
of those things is to have a parade or
go look at a parade okay number three a
set of pages pages that are together and
they show days weeks and months of a
year and we saw an example of that we
saw the example of March it showed March
2012 it has the days of the week right
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday Saturday and it also shows the
days the number the numbers show the
days of the month what do we call that
set of pages of course that would be a
calendar a calendar is a set of pages
that show days weeks and months of a
year you look at a calendar and you can
find out when are the holidays for that
year number four a man or woman who is
very brave and tries to help others very
important people in our societies right
important people who try to help each
help other people and they are very
brave what do we call these people we
want to honor these people we call them
heroes or a hero is a person a man or
woman who does this okay number five a
day now we're looking at a day a day to
honor an important person or event so
it's a day that we set aside right to
honor and
important person or something that
happened what do we call that we call
that a national holiday a national
holiday
oh yeah number six the usual way of
doing something in a group or country
the usual way the normal way of doing
something and each country has different
ways of doing something so in one
country people will get married they'll
have a wedding in this way or they'll
have a wedding in a different way and
when we talk about the differences what
are we talking about we are talking
about customs so a custom a custom is
this special way or usual way that a
group or a country does a certain thing
those are the customs of that country
okay let's take a look at some we talked
about heroes right we've defined what
that word means and that was one of the
words in our matching a word and
definition exercise who are some heroes
what are some examples of heroes we see
three important American heroes in this
chart we see first of all we see dr.
Martin Luther King jr. that's a long
name right his name of course is Martin
Luther King he's a doctor which means he
has a very advanced degree from a
university and his father was also named
Martin King so he called him jr.
whenever when a son has the same name as
his father we say jr. dr. Martin Luther
King jr. very important person that's
our first hero second one is Abraham
Lincoln and the third one is Rosa Parks
let's talk about each hero first dr.
Martin Luther King jr. he helped all
Americans have the same rights dr.
Martin Luther King was very important in
the 1960s in America because at that
time there was a white society and there
was black society of course they were
all together in the same country but
there was a lot of separation right
white people wanted to stay Oh apart
from black people
and black people were denied many rights
and privileges that white people had so
dr. Martin Luther King helped change
that but he didn't just change it for
black people he changed it for all
Americans because of his efforts laws
were passed and governments had to
change their laws in different states
and also for the whole country not just
to help black people but to help people
of all races to make sure that all
people are equal no matter what their
race is now we have a video here and
every day are ever not every day but
every year there is a celebration of
Martin Luther King jr. and that is
called the Martin Luther King jr. Day of
course and they have parades you see the
words we believe here that comes from a
very famous speech that dr. Martin
Luther King gave I believe he believes
in a country where all people are equal
where white and black can sit down at
the table of brotherhood they can sit
down at the same table and all nations
all races can be equal that was his
belief that was his dream and because of
him and other very important people in
society in the 1960s those dreams became
law and now America has laws to make
sure that people are treated equally and
fairly in society so he was a very
important hero to American history in
American society our next hero is
Abraham Lincoln you've probably heard of
him he was an American president a long
time ago he was president during a war
in America it wasn't a war that America
fought with another country it was a war
that America fought with itself it was a
civil war it was a southern part of
America fighting against the northern
part of America one of the main issues
of the war not the only issue but one of
the main issues of the war was to free
black Americans at that time black
Americans were slaves in the south not
in the north they were free in the north
but it's
southern states had the process had the
institution of slavery and the northern
states didn't like that the southern
states they felt they needed it for
their economy so they split and they had
a war now Abraham Lincoln was the
president during this time it was a very
very difficult time and he of course
worked to give freedom to African
Americans he was part of the North the
northern states who were fighting to
help free black Americans so he's a very
important president is very difficult
time of American history and he's very
he's credited or he's honored because he
helped Keep America together if it
weren't for him and other people of
course who were fighting in the North
America might be two different nations
right now but it's still one nation
mostly because of Abraham Lincoln
Abraham Lincoln is a very important hero
in American history of course and there
is a very big statue and building
dedicated built for his memory and it's
called the Lincoln Memorial the Lincoln
Memorial and this is a very impressive
building it's a whole building is built
for it to honor this man and if you go
in there you see the huge statue it's
huge and I've been there in Washington
DC it's really big you stand up you look
at it you can't really see but on the
wall behind him are the words of his
famous speeches not only on the walls
but on the sides too not only on the
back wall so you can go there it's a
very calm it's a very impressive area
and you can read some of his famous
speeches and big letters that are carved
into the wall behind him and that's the
Lincoln Memorial in Washington DC the
capital of America ok well that brings
us to our third hero her name is Rosa
Parks who is Rosa Parks was she a famous
politician was she an important speaker
like dr. Martin Luther King no she was
an ordinary woman but we honor her
because what did she do she refused to
give up her seat to white people
an ordinary woman sitting on a bus in a
southern state and in that time what
this sounds like a strange definition or
a strange event but what was going on
well in the South like I said before
during the 1960s and before the 1960s
black society and white society were
separate black people were supposed to
sit on the back of the bus in that time
and white people would sit in the front
of the bus because they they thought
that those were the better seats right
so for a black person to sit in the
front of the bus this was a big deal in
the southern states it was like it was
against the custom at the time so when
she came on the bus she was tired she
sat down there and she sat down in the
seat a white person came onto the bus
and said you have to move to the back of
the bus she said no I don't want to it's
not right and she's correct because she
did that it got there was a lot a big
news story many people heard about what
she did and many people said yeah that's
right
it's not right that she has to give up
her seat just because she's black give
up her seat to a white person and
because of that because of this news
what she did many black people
demonstrated and they stopped riding the
buses and so what happened was it was a
like a big show of support for Rosa
Parks she helped start this movement and
at the same time dr. Martin Luther King
heard about this and he spoke about this
and he fought also to to remember what
she did so she also became a hero in the
civil rights movement and that's of
course what we're talking about there
civil rights movement in the 1960s in
America very important time in American
history of course civil rights movement
dr. Martin Luther King was very much
involved in that Rosa Parks also was
very involved in that Abraham Lincoln
wasn't involved in the civil rights
movement he was a hundred years before
that almost 100
years before that but of course he was
credited with ending slavery so in fact
all of these heroes have something in
common they all have in common the fact
that they helped to make America a free
and equal society for all Americans
black and white and that's what these
three heroes have in common okay let's
take a look here take a look at our
small quiz we have the pictures of the
three different heroes do you remember
what I just told you about them can you
write the name of each person let's
review very quickly this person here was
a former president of the United States
he was credited with keeping the nation
together during a civil war when the
north northern states fought with the
southern states the northern states won
slavery was ended and he was credited
with a lot of of that he worked to help
free the American the slaves black
Americans African Americans what is his
name his name is Abraham Lincoln okay
this picture here we have a woman here
is she what was why is she a hero what
is her famous act she was on a bus in a
southern state and she refused to give
up her seat to a white person and the
news of her act spread very wide and
helped start the civil rights movement
in the United States her name of course
is Rosa Parks of course this man here a
very very important for the civil rights
movement in fact they lived at the same
time he heard about her event and he
used her event in his speeches and in
his efforts to help fight for equality
for all races not just black people in
America but for all races to make sure
that American society is free and equal
to everybody no matter what the color of
their skin his name of course is Martin
Luther King jr. and of course we say dr.
Martin Luther King because he has an
advanced degree from the University
okay so these are the three American
heroes and actually there are holidays
there's a holiday for Abraham Lincoln
there is a holiday for Martin Luther
King Rosa Parks does not have her own
holiday but she is part of course of the
civil rights movement in America okay
now we've come to our true/false
questions number one a folktale is a
traditional story of a group of people
so a folk story is a traditional story
of a group of people does that sound
right let's take a look
folk is like a traditional word that we
talk about people folk and people are
the same idea folk and people but folk
as a traditional word for people a tale
is a story so this sounds correct right
and absolutely this is true a folk tale
is a traditional story of a group of
people so every country has their own
traditions every country has their own
folk stories okay okay number two a hero
a hero of course is a person a man or
woman who does a great thing somebody
who's brave and they tried to help other
people well that's a great thing isn't
it if somebody is brave and they try to
help other people that is a great thing
so of course that is a hero that's what
a hero is number three custom custom is
the unusual strange way of doing
something in a group so something's
doing something strange not normal right
they're getting married in a weird way
right maybe they're you normally you
know in a marriage ceremony the man
wears a black tuxedo and the woman wears
a white wedding dress but in this
wedding
the man is wearing a pink dress and the
woman is wearing a business suit a man's
business suit that's not custom right
that would be unusual right so custom is
the unusual on means not usual is that
right no that's not right that's false
what we have to do is cross out on and
then it would be correct custom is that
usual way of doing something in a group
so in a society or in a country when
people usually do something this way and
it could be different from different
countries but in that country or in that
group people do the same thing the usual
thing in order to do something that is
custom for example in Korea its custom
to bow to each other that is the usual
way to say hello or goodbye to somebody
that would be custom if you did
something different like made a face at
somebody that's the unusual way
that's not custom right that would not
be custom ok custom is to bow okay okay
that wraps it up for the vocabulary
section we're gonna take a short break
here we'll come back and we'll take a
look at the reading okay welcome back
let's go over the reading section here
we have our first sentence which is our
topic sentence in the United States
there are special times that people
celebrate so it's important to first of
all quantify or state where are we
talking right work of course there are
there are special times that people
celebrate all over the world but we're
not going to talk about all over the
world we're gonna narrow it down we're
gonna focus to just the United States
because if we talk about all the world
then that's really long that's maybe too
much we want to focus down to one
country in the United States there are
special times that people celebrate
special times that people celebrate
these special times of course our
holidays and we celebrate those we do
something special to remember that day
okay now what we're going to hear and
the rest of the breeding passage are
examples of these special days and the
first one is an example Independence Day
is a national holiday to honor America's
independence from the United Kingdom
okay so we have Independence Day right
that's our first special time our first
holiday it's a national holiday why why
is it a holiday what do we do
what what is important about that day
it's to honor America's independence
it's a time that America became an
independent country independent from
whom from the United Kingdom from Great
Britain okay so that's Independence Day
Americans also have a national holiday
called Thanksgiving Day of course many
countries have similar days to
Thanksgiving Day for example Chuseok is
Korean Thanksgiving Day Americans also
celebrate Thanksgiving Day by the way
it's not just about the holiday for the
harvest it's also about very thankful
when Americans first came to America
they had a very difficult time and the
American Indians helped them out and
some people say that Thanksgiving Day is
is a is started when the Americans
wanted to thank the Indians and they had
a big feast together so that's a
Thanksgiving Day but it's also a time of
course to celebrate and to be happy
about the harvest the food that they
have grown that year okay they celebrate
the longtime custom to give thanks for
the year's harvest and that's the main
point of Thanksgiving Day the longtime
custom longtime custom of course means
people usually gave thanks when their
crops are grown and it's time to gather
the food many countries have a
Thanksgiving Day such a type of day for
that okay besides Independence Day and
Thanksgiving Day there are also special
days to remember the hard work of people
in the society in the Society of the
country so there are other days there
are other holidays there are also
special days to remember people who did
hard work people who are heroes or tried
to help other people Veterans Day and
Memorial Day are to honor military
heroes in the history of the United
States we took a look at Memorial Day
remember I said Memorial Day is the day
that we set aside
to honor the soldiers who died when
fighting wars for their country
Veterans Day what's what's Veterans Day
Veterans Day is just to honor the people
who served in the military whether or
not they fought in a war or not but so
there's two different days Memorial Day
is for to honor the soldiers who died
but what about the soldiers who lived
that day is Veterans Day so there's two
different days to celebrate or to honor
the two different groups of soldiers
some soldiers who died some soldiers who
who lived and survived but they still
served their country whether it's a time
of war a time of peace they still serve
their country they sacrificed for their
country their time and their efforts and
they worked hard to keep their country
safe so there's two different days to
honor them and of course these are all
military heroes people who served in the
military the army the Navy the Air Force
and of course the Marines for different
types of military services in the United
States so these days honor those
military men and women okay we also have
holidays when we talk about religion and
folk tales are shared customs in society
these are shared customs because many
people in a group or a country not in
America there's many different religions
there's not just one religion there's
one religion that is that is most common
but of course there are many different
religions so these different groups will
have customs within that group and they
might have different holidays at certain
times of the year also folk tales people
share folk tales customs about those
things for example in America Paul
Bunyan is a folk tale he wasn't a real
person but people talk about him it's a
folk tale and they might have a certain
customs that they they have about Paul
Bunyan some places some towns might have
special celebrations to celebrate folk
heroes
some people have belief in God
some people have believed
in God and there are different people
who believe in different gods - okay and
some people don't believe in God okay
but people who do believe in God some
people who believe in God they also
celebrate special times like Christmas
yeah that's true but actually Christmas
in the United States is becoming it's a
holiday
not just for religious people but
non-religious people also celebrate
Christmas of course Christmas has a
religious background it's the
celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ
but people who aren't religious also
celebrate Christmas because it's a time
again to get together with family and
exchange presents so it's very
interesting in America Christmas is a
Christian holiday but it's also a
holiday celebrated by many people who
don't believe in God so that's very
interesting or in Jesus Christ so but it
as I have its origin or its traditional
background is in religion okay in the
United States there are many special
days of course there are many special
dates on the calendar to celebrate being
American those are our national holidays
right for example Independence Day
Memorial Day those are days that we
celebrate being American and of course
certain days like Martin Luther King Day
that's also very important American
national holiday to celebrate being
American and being part of the tradition
of the fact that everybody should be
equal
okay now we've come to our reading skill
classify now we can classify certain
types of holidays and talk about the
details because our main ideas national
holidays of the United States so that's
our main idea right that's our big idea
that we're talking about in the passage
in the passage we looked at different
types of holidays and we can classify
them what are their names and were the
details about those holidays let's take
a look we have the names of the holiday
here and then we have the details over
here but we have blanks we have to fill
them in we have
four different blanks we have to fill
them in with these words down here our
words our hero's Independence Day
harvest and memorial okay let's figure
this out obviously two of them the
blanks are the names are part of a name
of a holiday the first one is a name of
a holiday we don't know what it is let's
look at the detail to figure it out the
detail is to honor the independence the
independence from the United Kingdom
that's easy right the independence we're
looking at what independence day that's
what it is Independence Day is the day
to honor the independence from the
United Kingdom when America told the
United Kingdom we don't want to be part
of your country anymore we want to be
our own independent country okay the
next one is Thanksgiving Day we know
that but we need to fill in the detail
to give thanks for the years what right
we talked about that before many
countries have a Thanksgiving Day and
it's important in traditional societies
right to give thanks for the years what
what if farmers do in the fall of course
they harvest the food so to give thanks
for the year's harvest okay
next one is Veterans Day comma and
another day another day that's very
similar to Veterans Day now what do
these days do they honor military beep
in the history of the United States so
we're talking about Veterans Day and of
course we're talking about Memorial Day
these two holidays these two special
days of the year honor military what
military people but military heroes
military heroes in the history of the
United States so there's actually two
days remember Veterans Day is just to
honor all men and women who served all
men and women who served in the military
Memorial Day is to honor those soldiers
who died during fighting for their
country okay so two different days two
military heroes in the United States of
course you don't have to die to be a
hero right but of course people who do
die they have made the ultimate
sacrifice to for their country
okay so Veterans Day and Memorial Day
honoring military heroes in the history
of the United States so this chart shows
us different holidays and gives us a
little bit of details or background
about what those holidays are okay now
we've come to our reading comprehension
questions how well do you remember the
reading passage the details in the
reading passage
let's take a look number one what can
you use to know when a holiday is so in
the year there are many different
holidays how do you know when the
holiday is what can you use to find that
information out well we have three
choices a belief be Christmas see
calendar so a you can use a belief to
know when a holiday is that doesn't
sound right that's kind of silly you can
use Christmas to know what a holiday is
I don't know when Easter is let's use
Christmas that doesn't make sense right
can you use a calendar ah a calendar is
a set of pages that show the month the
days and the weeks of the year and of
course it also shows you the holidays so
we use a calendar to know when a holiday
is number two religion and B are shared
customs in society so when we talk about
customs you know where to customs come
from well one area is religion what's
another area that customs come from the
new customs come from a calendar Oh
customs do not come from a calendar
calendar is just a tool that we use to
figure out what day it is or how about
religion and folktales are shared
customs in society well yeah sure
folktales are traditional stories about
a group of people so religion and
folktales are shared customs in society
that's true let's just look at see for
example
or practice religion and military heroes
are shared customs military heroes are
customs that doesn't make sense right
military heroes are people they're not
customs folktales are customs right for
example in Europe there are many
folktales that are very old Hans
Christian Andersen maybe you've heard of
him he has written many folktales and
they've become customs in certain parts
of Europe and also parts of America to
where his stories are used and these are
folktales okay let's take a look at
number three
Americans celebrate the year's harvest
how do Americans celebrate the year's
harvest remember harvest is when the
farmers gather their food the food has
grown it's in the fall the plants are
ready to pick right you can pick your
corn your Tomatoes your onions wheat
rice you can get all that stuff that's
your harvest how do we celebrate the
year's harvest a by having Christmas on
Thanksgiving Day does that sound right
Christmas on Thanksgiving Day Christmas
is in December Thanksgiving is in
November so we're gonna celebrate the
harvest by moving Christmas up to
November that doesn't make sense that's
very silly be by giving thanks on
Thanksgiving Day so that sounds right
right the farmers will gather all the
food they're very thankful for all the
food that they have and they have a
special day to celebrate they call it
Thanksgiving Day that's true so we give
thanks on Thanksgiving Day it's very
simple right you give give thanks on
Thanksgiving Day it's very easy and
that's how we celebrate the year's
harvest let's look at C for practice by
honoring military heroes on Thanksgiving
Day that's incorrect because we don't
honor military heroes on Thanksgiving
Day we honor military heroes on Veterans
Day and Memorial Day yeah okay so those
two days are used to honor military
heroes not on Thanksgiving Day okay
number four
some people have a belief in God and
they what a celebrate special times like
Christmas is that true is Christmas a
religious holiday yes it is I talked
about that and even though in America
people who are not religious still
celebrate Christmas Christmas is a
religious holiday that's the whole point
of Christmas it's the day to celebrate
the birth of Jesus Christ and if you
believe in Jesus Christ you are
religious you have belief in God so they
celebrate special times Christmas is an
example Easter would be another example
okay well let's look at B and C for
practice celebrate special times like
being an American is being an American a
special time know if you're an American
you're an American all the time not an
American on a special time that doesn't
make sense
I used to celebrate special times like
being an American that doesn't make
sense when somebody's an American it's
not a special time okay C do not
celebrate any national holidays in
America some people have belief in God
and they do not celebrate any national
holidays in America no we know that's
not true because we have Christmas we
didn't talk about it but we also have
Easter which is another religious
holiday so that doesn't make sense
that's not right so a is our correct
choice for that question
okay then we've come to our chart again
this is chart we were talking about
national holidays of the United States
in this case we have to figure out what
to call these holidays do you remember
we talked about this before in the
vocabulary section we have three
different holidays here and we have the
definitions of what those holidays are
let's take a look at the first one first
of all of course we can look at the
picture and what we see the picture we
can maybe know right away we have two
soldiers and they're in a parade right
there have the American flag and they're
riding in a parade Americans honor
heroes who died in wars that's the
important point because remember there's
two holidays
for military here
we're talking about the one holiday that
honors heroes who died in wars and what
Dave do we call that
of course we call that Memorial Day and
it is the last Monday of May
remember Memorial Day is like memory to
remember those heroes who died when
fighting wars okay over here we have
another holiday we have symbols that are
very important to the to the fact that
America is one nation right it's an
independent nation
America's Americans celebrate the
Declaration of Independence that's very
easy if you look at Independence what is
that day also do you remember when it is
that day of course is Independence Day
and it is July 4th
so Independence Day July 4th Americans
celebrate the Declaration of
Independence which was a document it's
like a letter that they sent to King
George of England saying we want to be
independent okay
finally we have over here we have a nice
picture there's a family gathered around
and they're going to eat a big meal
right they're going to have they're
gonna give thanks for all the food that
they have Americans give thanks give
thanks for the year's harvest obviously
if you hear give thanks put those words
together right switch them around put
them together and when is that when do
we have that day do you remember of
course that is Thanksgiving Day give
thanks on the fourth Thursday of
November so it's always that date is
always changing it's always the fourth
Thursday of November
that's Thanksgiving Day what is the date
how do you find out look at a calendar
okay so this unit has been about
celebration of holidays we've looked at
different types of holidays and we've
talked about ideas or reasons for
holidays right religious reasons if you
some people have belief in something
also folktales are shared customs that
groups and nations might have
and of course these holidays are also
customs right they become customs they
become part of the usual thing that
groups of people or nations do together
and that's very customary to have
different holidays remember we talked
about the history of not the history but
the holidays of the United States but
every country has holidays right think
about what are the national holidays of
Korea it's interesting also to find out
the national holidays of other countries
and to find out what different customs
people have in those countries
okay well that wraps it up for this
lesson we'll see you guys next time take
care
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02