ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 4 People Work
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 12
[Spending and Saving](https://youtu.be/d88wZfTrxWEâ€‹)

== Spending and Saving ==
Spending and saving money is fun to learn about. If you want to buy food and other items, you must spend money. But before you go to a grocery store, you should make a shopping list. Write all the items you need or want to buy. Then think if you really need or want them. You should make choices about what to buy, because you do not always have enough money. You should choose goods after you look at their cost. People spend money, and people also save money.  Your parents save their money in a bank. You can save your money in a piggy bank. You can save money to use later.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart we
are going over unit 12 in our textbook
we're talking about spending and saving
so of course we're talking about money
aren't we we can save our money or we
can spend our money in this unit you
will discover you should make choices
make a decision make choices about
spending money and that's important
right because there are many things that
we could buy and we can do something
with our money if we have ten dollars we
can save it or we can spend it we can
figure out how much we need how much
money we need to spend something right
so this girl has a piggy bank we'll see
that a little bit later piggy bank and
she can save the money and this boy has
a calculator a calc you Laye Tour
calculator it helps him figure out how
much money he's going to spend and how
much money he will have left after
spending some money but we're going to
talk about these words here and of
course our first word is spend and as we
can see from our unit title there are
basically two things you can do with
money spend it or save it talking about
spend spend means to give money to
someone else to get goods or services
get goods or services so remember goods
are physical objects services are things
that people do for us but we want or
need these things and when we get them
we have to spend money to get those
things now of course this woman here is
spending money she's spending money on
shoes so she's going to spend some money
to get shoes now she's using a credit
card and that's an interesting one you
can pay you can pay by cash or you can
pay by credit
and usually credit card so you can pay
by cash or you can pay by credit card
she's using a credit card which is like
electronic money isn't it and she's
buying something on the internet you
need to use a credit card to buy on the
Internet you can use cash you can spend
the cash in a store so to spend is to
give money now the other thing we can do
the opposite the opposite pandeiro of
spend is to save that means you don't
give the money away in this case not to
spend not so it's opposite not to spend
money you keep it keep it for later so
these girls are saving their money
they're putting their coins into a small
piggy bank because that those coins will
add up they'll have a lot of money later
it's also very wise to save your money
for if you need it later so to save
money is the opposite of spending money
now when we talk about money of course
we can also talk about cost and remember
we talked about this in the previous
unit we talked about cost and we talked
about price right what is the cost what
is the price so when we're going to buy
something we can talk about how much
does it cost we can say what is the
price the price or the count of the cost
is the amount the amount of money that
you have to pay to get or do something
so if you want to get something or you
want to do something then you consider
the cost remember when you're buying
something it's not always an object
that's to pay to get something but you
also pay money to do something for
example to go on a trip to go on a
vacation to go bungee jumping right that
is a service right so to do something
you also have to pay money you there's a
cost for those things whether it's an
object or something an activity that you
want to do so she has to think about the
cost right if she has enough money she
can buy it she doesn't have enough
it costs too much it costs it costs too
much that means I can't pay for it I
don't have enough money sad right it
costs too much that means I don't have
enough money to buy something okay item
item is one thing one thing that is part
of a list or a set so let's say you're
gonna go shopping you need some food for
your house you want to put some food in
your refrigerator so you want to know
what you need to buy make a list before
you go so you don't forget anything you
can look in your refrigerator say okay
we need milk we need potatoes we need
eggs
write them down that is a list now each
item on the list we call these items
each thing on this list is an item milk
is one item potatoes is one item eggs is
one item these are items on a list part
of a list or set also when you go to a
restaurant you look at the menu a menu
is a list or a set so when you're
looking at one dish on the menu that is
a menu item if you say I want fried
chicken that fried chicken is an item on
the menu fried chicken is not a menu
it's a menu item so you say what is if
you say what's the menu like what are
the things on the menu or do you have a
menu
I like this on the menu what's on the
menu are the items on the menu
don't say I like this menu right for
fried chicken fried chicken is a of an
item on the menu so be careful with that
I hear a lot of konglish using menu but
anyway item is one thing one thing it's
part of a list
or a menu is a list of things that you
might order at a restaurant okay
grocery a grocery of course is a store
what do you buy at a grocery store well
you can buy food or sometimes other
goods right
usually food a grocery store is usually
where you buy food and drink this woman
she's shopping for looks like drinks
here and she's going to buy something as
a drink looks like she's looking in the
milk section could be some yogurt here
as well but a grocery you can also buy
other Goods at a grocery store for
example cleaning supplies for your house
maybe cups brooms things like that you
can buy other items at a grocery store
but mostly mostly you buy food at a
grocery store
mostly grocery stores sell food so go to
the grocery to buy food for your house
now a bank is a place where you save
money just like a grocery is a place
where you spend money right a store is a
place where you spend money a bank is
where you save your money it's a safe
place right now you know you could save
your money in a variety of ways you
could take your money and put it under
your bed but is that safe right maybe
your brother or sister might find it or
maybe you know it might get lost right
it's not a very safe place to put your
money under your bed but if you put it
in a bank you won't lose it it will
always be there you can save money at a
bank or borrow money let's talk about
save first when you go to a bank and you
say I want to save money there you open
a bank account open a bank account so
you open a bank account at a bank
it has your name it has your national ID
number on the bank accounts so they know
it's yours not somebody else with the
same name as you and
you can put your money in the bank you
can take your money out of the bank in
some cases you can borrow money from the
bank so if you go to the bank and say I
want to start a business when you're
older right you can go to the bank and
say I would like to borrow some money
can you lend me some money borrow money
is to take the money from the bank and
use it but you will pay it back later
and of course if you borrow money
why does a bank lend you money because
they will charge you more money they
will charge you interest interest now
this is getting interest okay this is
getting into more grown-up or adult
subjects but that's okay
interest the bank will charge you
interest so when you borrow money if you
borrow $100 and you pay $100 back three
months from now you'll probably pay a
hundred and three dollars or a hundred
and five dollars because that extra
money is the interest that's why the
bank will lend it to you but if you save
your money in the bank the bank will pay
you interest if you open a bank account
and you put $100 in the bank after three
months maybe you'll have three or five
dollars they'll give you an extra three
or five dollars if you keep your money
in the bank and that's called interest
and that's another reason to save your
money in the bank because you can make
interest a little bit more money okay
here we have a shopping list before we
saw item right and we saw a very brief
list and that was a shopping list right
a shopping list is a list of things that
you need to buy you need to buy so this
looks like a shopping list for a grocery
store we need to buy milk eggs bread
butter cheese toilet paper paper towels
dish soap and bleach this is food these
are other things right so we need to buy
food we need to buy other things for our
house of course we're going to
to a grocery store before we go we make
a shopping list that way we don't forget
anything right we go to the store we buy
many things if we don't have a shopping
list we come back home and go oh I
forgot to buy paper towels okay so make
a list before you go and check off the
list check off the items that means as
you buy each item you check it off milk
got it
dish soap I got it right you check off
the items that you buy that way you
don't forget anything on your shopping
list okay piggy bank right we saw that
before we've seen it a couple of times
before it's very cute right no we'll
keep gia okay very cute piggy bank a
piggy bank we talked about Bank right
that's a building that's a place a very
formal place to save your money another
place that you can save money like coins
and things not a lot of money
but you can put your coins into a piggy
bank it's a pig shaped money box that
children save coins in save coins
usually sometimes people might put a
bill like a one dollar bill in there but
usually you put your coins in there at
the end of the day right if you spend
money during the day at the end of the
day going to your pockets you have Begg
one chip one
oh one maybe old bag one yeah okay
and you don't want to carry those around
with you every day so you put them in
your piggy bank it's interesting because
Koreans think pigs are lucky right if
you have a dream about pigs you think
wow I'm gonna get a lot of money it's
very interesting in America we have this
similar idea if you have a pig you know
farmers who have big fat pigs they're
rich right so that's why the bank that
little toy it's like a toy but it's it's
something useful it looks like a pig
because if you fill it up with coins you
have a lot of money so you see Korean
and American
ideas are very similar actually it's
probably similar all around the world
right people have the same ideas many of
the same ideas in many different
cultures okay but anyway we save money
in a piggy bank and you probably have a
piggy bank yourself some piggy banks
have a little thing on the bottom you
open it up then you can pour the coins
out some piggy banks they don't have
that the only way to open it is to break
it right so those are that's also
another way to to get the money out to
break the piggy back the the piggy bank
is to get all the money out but usually
if it's made of plastic you don't have
to break it you just open it up but it's
easier to do that so you know it's like
do you save the money you take any out
depends on the type of piggy bank you
have okay so piggy banks you can save
your coins in there save it don't spend
it okay let's look at our chart here we
have money what can we do with money we
can do two things with money one thing
is we can spend the money or the other
thing is to save the money so we can
spend money or we can save money
opposite ideas or opposite things what
do we spend money on what do we spend
money on we spend money on goods and
services
remember goods or objects things that we
can buy we can touch and services are a
work that other people do for us that's
what we spend our money on now we can
save our money and we saw two different
ways to save money we can save money in
a piggy bank wow this piggy bank is
really rich look at all those bills
paper money usually we put coins in a
piggy bank smaller amounts of money
that's an informal way that's a fun way
to save money at your house but if you
have a lot of money a lot more money and
maybe you want to earn interest go to a
bank open a bank account and you can
save your money at the bank you can put
your money in there they'll give you
some money called interest after a long
time or you can borrow money
then you have to pay interest on the
money that you borrow so basically money
two things to do with it and different
ways to spend different ways to save
okay let's take a look at our word
matching exercise let's match the words
to their definitions these are the words
here let's take a look at the
definitions the words are spend save
cost item grocery grocery bank
okay grocery okay grocery not grocery
grocery okay
let's take a look at the definitions
number one one thing that is part of a
list or a set so you have a set of many
things or a list of many things we're
only looking at one part of that
remember what is that which word is
matches this definition one thing on
that set or list or menu we call that of
course an item that is an item so one
thing that is part of a larger list or
set number two not to spend the opposite
of spends so not to spend right we're
not spending money we're gonna keep it
for later we don't spend it we keep it
for later we can put it in a piggy bank
or we can put it in the bank so the
opposite of spend is of course to save
to save three a store this is a type of
store where you can buy food or other
goods usually food if you go to this
type of store you usually buy food there
but you can also buy other things like
we saw paper towels dish washing soap
brooms cleaning supplies and things like
that what kind of store is it what kind
of store do you see up here it's a
grocery store right it's a grocery store
that's the type of store or you normally
buy food and you can buy other things
there too so move on to number four a
safe place where you can save
or borrow money you can save your money
there or you can borrow money from that
place and it's a safe place what do we
call that place of course that place is
called a bank number five the amount of
money that you have to pay to get or do
something that you have to pay and it's
the amount of money the amount of money
that you have to pay to get or do
something so when you want to get
something you have to look at what if
you want to do something you have to
look at what you look at it to figure
out if you have enough money if you have
enough money you can pay for it so of
course we're talking about what we're
talking about the cost of that thing or
that service right that thing or that
activity I'll get number six to give
money to someone else to get goods or
services so to give money this of course
is the opposite of saving it's the
opposite of saving you're not keeping
your money you're giving your money to
someone to get goods or services what
are you doing you are spending your
money and of course this is the main
thing that we use money for it's to
spend money to get the things that we
need our needs and wants to meet our
needs and wants to buy goods or services
okay let's move on to our chart here we
can see two people in the grocery store
could be mom and daughter she's very
young for for a mom right but they could
be sisters but probably mom and and
daughter and they look like they're in a
grocery store and mom is has got two
products in her hand she's got two types
of two goods in her hands right and what
are they doing let's take a look at the
explanation making choices so right away
we can see that mom is making a choice
why you can't buy everything you want
I'm sorry we don't have enough money to
buy everything that we want if you want
to buy things you should make choices by
looking at the cost of things
so especially when things are very
similar right these things look almost
the same there are two jars right looks
like the contents are very similar maybe
she's looking at peanut butter it could
be jelly I'm not really sure but she
wants to know which one to buy one good
way to make that choice is to look at
the cost how much does this cost how
much does this cost
maybe this is two dollars maybe this one
is one dollar and fifty cents okay so
maybe she's gonna buy this because it's
cheaper maybe that's one thing she looks
at is the cost but also look at the
quality right look at how good maybe
maybe the two dollar one tastes better
maybe
ahhh no more mushy soil right and maybe
this one doesn't taste as good
so of course you look at the cost but
you look at other things too but cost is
very important that's what people look
at first the first thing they look at is
the cost of things and they make a
choice do I buy this or do I buy this so
we don't have enough money to buy
everything we want we have to make a
choice first thing you look at is cost
okay let's complete the sentence that
best describes the pictures now over
here we see one picture this this boy
looks like he's very disappointed he's
looking inside his wallet by the way
this is called a wallet men have wallets
it's not a purse okay men have wallets
so he's looking inside his wallet and he
can see if there's money in there it
doesn't look like he has any money oh I
have no money okay now she's very happy
because she used her money but she's
happy about how she used her money okay
so she's happy that she decided to spend
her money and she's happy with how she
spent her money over here this woman is
at a store she's got two products in her
hand they look very similar they're both
in boxes they're different colors
probably different brands
she's probably looking at the cost how
much does each cost so what is their
sentence we should make about how to
spend money it's very important to look
at this word make what what do we make
when we decide how to spend money we
make choices right you make choices
about how to spend money make a choice
these words go together go together oh
my pen okay make a choice make a choice
make a choice make a decision make us
choice make a decision those words go
together so when we're talking about
choice you make a choice and that just
fill in this blank we should make
choices about how to spend money he
doesn't have enough money so his choice
is simple I don't have enough money
can't do anything so that's an easy
choice she made a lot of choices she's
happy about it right she's happy about
the choices she made she's having a hard
time she's having difficulty making a
choice she's comparing the cost
maybe she's comparing the quality but
she's making a choice these people are
all making choices okay okay now we're
on our true or false questions let's
take a look at these sentences determine
if they are true or false number one if
you save money you get goods from
someone else does that sound right you
get goods from someone else if you save
your money does that sound right that
doesn't sound right right it's false
because we need to change something here
if we change this word when we save
money we keep our money we don't get
goods from someone else what's the
opposite of save if you spend money if
you spend money you get goods from
someone else that's correct okay so we
have to change the sentence so it's
false
number two a grocery is a list of things
does that sound right Agro
three is a list of things no it's not
right that's false right because what is
a grocery a grocery is a store we have
to change that a grocery is a store that
sells mostly food okay a grocery is a
type of store we have to change it so
this is false number three a bank is a
store where you can buy food sounds good
right if you need food go to a bank it
doesn't sound right okay a bank is not a
store it's a place where you save money
or you can borrow money but you don't
buy food at a bank so this is also false
false false false all of these sentences
are false we have to change all of them
in this case we could say a grocery is a
store where you can buy food or we could
change it a bank is a place no I'll just
change it all a bank is a place where
you can save or what save or what save
or borrow save or borrow money so if you
want to save your money you want to
borrow your money go to a bank
so all these sentences are false we have
to change all of them right to make them
true and because we have to change them
they are all false
okay well that wraps it up for the
vocabulary section let's take a short
break we'll come back and we'll take a
look at the reading section don't go
away okay let's go over the reading
section together now again the topic of
this unit is spending and saving so that
is what the reading passage will be
about and we can see that in our topic
sentence the first sentence of the
reading passage we can see that right
here spending and saving money that's
our subject right what's our idea about
saving and spending money it's fun to
learn about so this passage in this
passage we're going to learn about
spending and saving money
notice they said spending
first so first we're gonna talk about or
we're gonna read about spending that's
true if you want to buy when you buy you
spend if you want to buy food and other
items you must spend money so spending
is first here it's the first thing we
are going to read about in our passage
but before you go to a grocery store so
if you want to buy food you go to a
grocery store but before you go to a
grocery store what should you do you
should make a shopping list okay
this sentence tells us a little bit more
about spending money especially when we
want to buy food if we want to buy food
we have to spend money but before you go
to the store the grocery store where you
buy food you should make a shopping list
we talked about that it's important to
make a list so you don't forget anything
okay when you make a shopping list what
are you doing you write all the items
you need or want to buy so write all the
individual items you need or want to buy
there's our needs and wants again write
some of course we need food some foods
we need but there are other things at
the grocery store that we don't need but
we can buy like candy for example other
things that we just want to buy at the
grocery store but we don't absolutely
need but basically write them all down
make a shopping list okay then after you
make your shopping list then right means
you did something before right your
shopping list then after you've written
your shopping list think think about it
do you really need or want them do you
really need or want them think about
that that's a good question do you
really need or want those things that
you wrote on your shopping list you
should make choices what to buy because
you don't always have enough money so
you make your shopping list then you
think about it do I really need it do I
really want it be
cuz if you make your shopping list and
you think oh this is gonna be really
expensive I don't have enough money to
buy all these things so then you have to
think about it if you don't have enough
money you have to change your list right
and you have to make choices what to buy
what you might not buy you should choose
Goods after you look at their cost so
you can go to the store or you can think
about your past experience milk is going
to cost this much paper towels cost this
much think about that think about how
much money you have and how much how
many things you really need or want and
then you make the choices after that now
we talked about spending money this is a
good way to spend money right decide to
go to the store make a list and then
make choices from that list but you
don't always have to spend money the
other thing that you do with money
that we're learning about in this
passage of course is saving money people
spend money and people also save money
okay so this is a nice transition from
spending money to saving money we talked
about spending money now we're going to
talk about saving money your parents
save their money in a bank right we
talked about a bank a bank is a formal
place to save a lot of money your
parents probably have more money than
you do so they don't put it in a piggy
bank that's not very safe somebody could
come and take it or they can lose it
so they go to a bank and they put their
money in a bank they also earn interest
right so your parents save their money
in a bank you can save your money in a
piggy bank because probably you have
your money as mostly coins or small
money you can put it into a piggy bank
like this girl is doing here you can
save the money here you can use it later
let's say there's a bicycle that you
want to buy but a bicycle is expensive
it costs a lot so you don't have enough
money now so you save your money little
by
every day until your piggy bank is full
and maybe you have enough money to buy a
bank maybe your parents will help you
out too if you don't have all the money
you need but you save up a lot of money
you can try to buy the things that you
want save your money so that you can use
that money later to buy more expensive
things okay we have our reading skill
here classify so we're talking about
different things to do with money
remember there's two basic things we can
do with money one way is to spend the
money the other way is to save the money
let's talk about those two things here
if we spend money we have these details
here about spending money if we save
money we have these details here now our
blanks we have four blanks our words are
later cost shopping list and Bank let's
talk about those spend money you should
make a beep before you spend money so
what should you make before you go out
and spend the money later cost shopping
list or bank of course it's shopping
list we talked about that so you should
make a shopping list before you spend
your money you should choose Goods after
you look up there so you go to the store
and what are you looking at when when
you make a choice what do you look at
first what did we talk about that what
did we say about that we said that you
should look at their cost when you want
to choose the goods look at the cost
first how much does it cost okay
that's when you're spending money what
about if you're saving money your
parents saved their money in a what we
just talked about that right your
parents save money in a bank right you
can save money you can save money to use
when when you save money you want to use
it when you want to use it later you can
save money to use later okay so those
are the details about spending money and
saving money there's two things we can
do with money we can spend it or we can
save it
oh yeah let's move on to our reading
comprehension questions number one what
do you need to spend if you want to buy
something you want to buy something what
do you spend do you spend a a bank do
you spend B money or do you spend C
goods well of course we know the answer
that that's very easy you spend money
you don't spend bank
all right you don't spend a building and
you don't spend goods right you don't go
into your closet and get a bunch of
goods together and spend the goods no
you spend money money is an easy way to
to buy things it's convenient we spend
money we can spend money or we can save
money when we spend money we buy
something number two many people do what
with their money a spend and save B buy
and sell C shoes and sell well it's very
easy we're talking about two things that
everybody does with their money they
either do one or the other they either
spend the money or they save the money
so many people spend and save money some
money they spend some money they save
but people do both things with money
they don't buy and sell money do you
ever have you ever bought money if you
go on a trip to another country sure
you're gonna buy money and when you come
back you're gonna sell that money
because you don't need it anymore for
example you you buy American dollars if
you go to America when you come back to
Korea you sell those American dollars
but that's not the main point here we're
not talking about buying and selling
money or currencies we're talking about
buying and selling things right spending
and saving so that's not appropriate
see we choose and sell money you choose
money you sell money that's odd
not many people sell money and we don't
choose money to to to we don't choose
money that's that's very strange
of course our answer most appropriate
answers most people spend and save money
that's what we're talking about in this
unit spending and saving let's look at
number three you should look at a Goods
what you should look at a goods cost and
we have the rest of the sentence let's
take a look a but you do not need a
shopping list so when you go shopping
you should look at a goods cost but you
don't need a shopping list no that's not
true we're not talking about that
remember we said it's a good idea to
make a shopping list before you go
shopping how Abby you should look at a
Goods cost and then choose if you should
buy it
remember we said one of the first things
you should look at when you shoot make a
choice to buy something or not is the
cost so that sounds correct right you
should look at a Goods cost and then
choose if you should buy it let's look
at see and then sell it in a grocery
store
what's strange that doesn't make any
sense right so that's not correct okay
number four your parents can save their
money in a bank a and you can save yours
in a piggy bank
B and you can save yours by buying
things you can save by buying things
that doesn't make sense
C and you can save yours in a grocery
store you save money in a grocery store
and you spend money in a grocery store
so a must be correct and you can save
yours in a piggy bank so your parents
saved their money in a bank that's your
parents you save yours in a piggy bank
that's correct right that's what we
talked about so a is our correct answer
okay here is our chart again we can see
we can do some things with well we'll
take a look at the pictures and we'll
fill in the blanks here so first of all
what are we talking about in this unit
when we spend or save something what is
it that we're spending or saving what is
it this of course is money so we can
spend or we can save money when we spend
money what do we spend money on what do
we spend money on there's two main
things two main groups of things one
they are things objects that we can
touch so these would be goods
another thing we spend money on are
almost said it work that other people do
so there's goods
and there are services work that other
people do for us save when we save money
there's two main places we talked about
where you can save money if you don't
have a lot of money right you have
mostly coins this picture is kind of
tricky because there's a lot of bills on
the bottom maybe if you take all those
coins out you get some bills right but
what kind of place is this where do you
save money here
this of course is a piggy bank if you
have a lot of money and you're and if
you're older right your parents will
save their money here what is this place
called you can see it right there
Capital One Bank right that's a bank
it's a building it's a safe place where
you can save a lot of money you can also
borrow money from a bank okay so this
unit unit number twelve we were talking
about spending and saving money there's
two main things you can do with your
money you can spend it usually you go to
a grocery store to spend your money you
can also go to a toy store or a candy
store right but think about what you
need and what you really want do you
want to waste your money on candy or
small toys or do you want to save your
money and use it for something important
later you need to make a good choice and
you also need to make choices about
spending money when you spend money make
a good choice look at the cost first and
that helps you decide which thing you're
going to buy okay well that wraps it up
for this unit I hope you've learned a
lot be careful about how you spend money
remember try to save more money than you
spend anyway we'll see you next time
take it easy everybody
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01