ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 3 Everything Changes
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 09
[The Beginning of the United Statesâ€‹](https://youtu.be/1D5Ut49FQz8)

In the early 18th century, 
Americans were ruled by the king of England. 
This means that America was a colony of England. 
The American people wanted freedom from England. 
On July 4, 1776, the American people signed the Declaration of Independence. 
But England did not want the American colonies to be independent. 
America had a war with England to fight for their independence.
Soldiers fought many battles.
George Washington was a famous leader who helped America in the war. 
In the end, the American colonies won the war and became the United States. 
Every year on July 4, people in America remember the war and the signing of the Declaration of Independence.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everyone welcome back to American
textbook reading we're on lesson 9
lesson 9 is the beginning of the United
States so basically we're going to like
listen to a story or learn a story in
this lesson in this lesson you will
discover the beginning of the US and its
first president
so we'll kind of learn about a story in
this lesson about how did America become
a country and about its first president
someone who really helped America become
an independent country let's take a look
at the vocabulary first of all we have
the word rule to rule means to have the
power to control who is this person
looks like a very strange type of person
but anyway this person looks like a king
right a king or a queen rules the
country they control the country they
have the power to control the country so
a king or queen rules the country a
colony is a place that is ruled by a
more powerful country this is kind of a
strange picture right it's like I'm
going to eat the world but imagine if a
king or queen is very powerful and they
can put their power unto another country
and rule that country that would be a
colony a place that is ruled by a more
powerful country so if one country is
very powerful and they take over another
country they rule it they control that
country that would and they turn in that
country into a colony ok independence
independence is freedom from others
control so if you want independence you
want to be free from somebody else's
control it's very interesting because
everybody learns how to be independent
as you grow older you become you learn
how to be free from your parents control
of course you shouldn't be free from
your parents control right away your
parents help you right you need your
parents control they will guide you and
teach you but as you get older you
become independence independent right
you get your independence when you
become an adult and that means that you
are free now from your parents control
but you you know of course your parents
love you and they're not trying to
control you they're just trying to do
the best thing for you but in other
situations other people might try to
control other people and they don't
they're not helping those people they
just want to use them to get more things
or more us they they want to get
something for example money or work for
free and so they're controlling other
people of course those people they want
to become independent and they want to
have control over their own lives so
independence is freedom from others
control now a declaration if you make a
declaration you make a declaration when
you make a declaration a declaration is
something that is officially told to
other people when you stand up in a
formal situation and you announce
something or you can even write
something that can be a declaration too
it's when you officially tell other
people some information maybe your
opinion or what you want to do that is a
declaration you are declaring what your
intentions are what you want to do okay
war war is a long period of fighting a
long period of fighting wars lasts for a
long time
a long period of fighting between two
countries wars are usually fought
between two countries but of course when
a country fights against itself
that's called a civil war but wars are
usually caught fought between two
different countries and of course these
would be Wars and there are very
terrible things as you can imagine okay
well if we talk about war we should talk
about soldiers right a soldier is a
person who belongs to an army an army is
what fights in a war each country has
their own armies and these armies fight
against each other in battles and that's
part of a longer period that is the war
but of course the soldiers are the
people who do the fighting a battle I
just mentioned that word a battle is a
fight one fight a fight means one fight
during a war a war is a long period of
time so during the war there are many
battles there are many separate fights
or individual fights so each fight
during a long time are called battles
it's very interesting some people may
say oh they won the battle they won the
battle but they didn't win the war right
they won the battle but they didn't win
the war so you know armies can win a
battle but it doesn't mean that they're
going to win the war because a war is a
series of battles one army might win a
battle but in the end that country might
lose the war so they have to win all of
the battles if they win all of the
battles then they win the war but you
know they win some and they lose some so
you may have won the battle but you
didn't win the war or you may have lost
the battle but you didn't lose the book
war and if somebody says you lost the
battle but you didn't lose the war that
means keep trying maybe you had a
failure but keep trying keep fighting
and it may be not a war maybe you're
struggling to do something else you may
lose a battle but don't give up you
haven't lost the war so keep fighting
okay
now we have our chart here the beginning
of the United States this is kind of our
story this is a story we're talking
about we're talking about what happened
first next and next the beginning of the
United States what happened first on
July 4th 1776 July 4th 1776 the 13
colonies
agreed on the Declaration of
Independence the 13 colonies we talked
about that word these were British
colonies Britain controlled these areas
in America and they were colonies they
sent money and they would send people to
America for fighting in Wars but these
colonies wanted to be independent so
they made a declaration they declared
that they want to be independent that
they are now independent they don't want
Britain to rule over them anymore
what happened well Britain didn't like
that right Britain didn't wanted to keep
control of the American colonies so
Britain and America went to war the
Americans fought a war with England to
get their freedom so they fought a long
war over a long period of time it was a
very difficult war there are many times
that Americans are almost lost the war
and it was just luck and also a very
strong effort by some very important
people that won the war so not only was
it you know lucky but it was also
because of some people who really
sacrificed and worked hard in order to
win the war but it almost went the other
way
England almost won that war okay so
anyway Americans fought a war with
England to get freedom Americans won the
war finally after a few very important
victories after a few very important
battles they won the war the 13 colonies
became the 13 States of America they
became the original 13 States of America
and as America got bigger and bigger and
expanded they added more States so now
there are 50 States of America so this
is kind of a short story of the
beginning how the United States began we
have a little footnote here right July
4th on every July 4th Americans
celebrate their independence it is
Independence Day so we remember July 4th
as Independence Day and Americans
celebrate that
every year with festival festivities
with picnics barbecues and also
fireworks at night if you're in America
on July 4th in many big towns of course
in big cities many towns even some
smaller villages they will have a
fireworks display and you can see many
fireworks celebrating the Independence
Day okay let's take a look at their own
matching let's match the words with
their definitions our words are rule
rule colony colony independence
independence declaration declaration war
that's easy soldier soldier okay what
are the definitions of these words let's
look number one to have the power to
control somebody has the power to
control something what do we call that
that is to rule they are ruling number
two freedom from others control so if
you want freedom from somebody's rule
you want to get away from somebody's
rule you are looking for what you're
trying to get what you are trying to get
independence you want to get
independence you want freedom from
somebody else's control number three a
person who belongs to an army so a
person who is part of an army there are
many people that make up an army and
they fight in the battles during a war
who are they
they are of course soldiers a soldier is
a person who belongs to an army oh yeah
number for something that is officially
officially told to people you want to
stand up and you want to declare
something or you can write it down in
the letter and you're declaring your
intentions what you want what are you
doing you are making a declaration
you're making a declaration okay number
five a place that is ruled by a more
powerful country so one country is very
powerful and it goes out and
rulz another place that's not inside
that country what do we call that other
place we call that other place a colony
many European countries had colonies a
long time ago they would rule places in
Africa or in the Americas North America
and South America and also in Asia okay
six a long period of fighting between
two countries a long period of fighting
between two countries and there are many
battles fought during this event of
course it is called a war a war is a
long period of fighting and many battles
are fought during a war okay let's take
a look at our chart here now we're
talking about the beginning of the
United States and as I mentioned before
America almost lost the war there were a
few lucky situations where the weather
were it was in favor of the Americans
and the weather helped the Americans win
some battles or escape from some certain
defeats but it was also not just luck it
was the strong determination and hard
work and sacrifice by some very
important people it's actually not a lot
of people fought in the American War of
revolution there weren't that many
people so some people were very
important the ones who were the leaders
they were very important George
Washington was one of those leaders he
led many battles against England George
Washington was a soldier and he grew up
he had a long career as a soldier before
the American independence war the
American Revolution he led many battles
against England he helped the colonies
win the war against England his
decisions and his determination and his
efforts to try to keep his soldiers from
leaving his army because it was a very
difficult war and some winters were very
cold he helped the colonies of course
win the war against England he was a
very smart person he was a very good
General George Washington became the
first president after the war he became
the first president of the United States
of America
he was very
respected because of his efforts and his
determination and his sacrifice that
people elected him to become the first
president it's funny because the story
says that he didn't really want to be
President but the people respected him
so much and they liked him so much that
they elected him as the president so he
accepted but he wasn't very enthusiastic
about it but he became president because
he was a man who served his country okay
look at the picture and fill in the
blank to complete the sentence in this
picture we can see many people gathering
around this is of the Congress of
Philadelphia right this is when on July
4th 1776 the 13 colonies so these men
are representatives from the 13 colonies
they met and they agreed on what this is
a type of letter that they sent to King
George in England it was a declaration a
declaration of what it was a declaration
of independence and this is what started
the war with England because King George
said no he got the Declaration of
Independence he's like no you can't
break away we're gonna have a war about
it and America won the war ok let's take
a look at our true/false questions
number one a battle is a person who
belongs to an army does that sound right
to you
a battle is a person a battle is not a
person the battle is a fight so this is
wrong this is false how do we change it
we need to change battle to another word
that we learned a what is a person who
belongs to an army a soldier a soldier
oops my pen a soldier is a person who
belongs to an army that's a soldier not
a battle next one number two George
Washington led many battles against
America so what this sentence says is
that George Washington was against
America he fought against America
this sentence makes it seem like George
Washington was on the side of England or
Britain I
against America is that true absolutely
not that's false George Washington
wasn't against America he was for
America so this sentence is false George
Washington led many battles for America
we'd have to change that now it's true
but we have to change it so it's false
okay number three a colony is a place
that is ruled by a more powerful country
is that true does that sound right
that does sound right it is true so a
colony is a place a more powerful
country takes that place and rules it
it's not inside that country they went
out and they took that land or they took
that region and that is their colony ok
well that wraps it up for the vocabulary
section let's take a short break we'll
come back and take a look at the reading
don't go away
ok welcome back to the reading section
we're gonna go over the reading passage
now and this is kind of telling us a
short story how did America become an
independent country let's take a look
here of course we're gonna start off
with the first event and go in the order
like telling a story first
next next we're starting off with in the
early 18th century in the early 18th
century Americans were ruled by the king
of England it's interesting when you
look at the early 18th century what does
that mean that means the early seventeen
hundreds right don't get confused
sometimes it's confusing you see 18th
century we think 1800s but 18th century
actually means 1700s right and early
means 1700 to 1750 right those early
1700s in the early 1700s or 18th century
Americans were ruled by the king of
England the king of England had control
over the American colonies because they
were founded by England British ships
went there and they had the power with
the Navy and most British citizens went
to America
settled there so they were still British
citizens they said allegiance or they
had allegiance to their king back in
England even though that was very far
away so this means that America was a
colony of England the American people
wanted freedom from England okay so for
a long time America was a colony of
England
but people were not happy with the rule
of the King partly because it was so far
away and the King wanted a lot of taxes
so the American people wanted freedom
from England they wanted independence
from England so on July 4th 1776 in the
later part of the 18th century the
Americans had enough right they wanted
to declare their independence so on July
4th 1776 the American people signed the
Declaration of Independence the
representatives from the thirteen
colonies each one of them signed the
Declaration of Independence but England
did not want the American colonies to be
independent so America had a war with
England to fight for their independence
so this is telling this story basically
the the representatives from the
thirteen colonies got together they
signed the Declaration of Independence
England did not want they didn't want
the American colonies to be independent
why not because if the American colors
were independent Britain or King George
would lose a lot of money they wouldn't
send taxes anymore to England so of
course England didn't want to lose all
that money and all those resources so
they had a war over this America had a
war with England Americans wanted to be
independent they wanted their own
country so soldiers fought many battles
soldiers on both sides English soldiers
and American soldiers fought against
each other
by the way also German soldiers and
French soldiers were also involved in
the war that's another story
soldiers fought many battles George
Washington was a famous leader who
helped America in the war in the end the
American colonies won the war and became
the United States so soldiers fought
many battles during the long period of
the war George Washington was a famous
leader he was famous before the war he
was a soldier for a very long time and
when the war happened he was on the
American side and he was a general he
was a famous leader and of course he
helped America a lot in the war and if
it wasn't for George Washington probably
America would have lost the war
in the end the American colonies won the
war finally at the end of a long war and
they became the United States the
thirteen original states of the United
States so every year in July fourth
because remember July fourth is the date
that the representatives signed the
Declaration of Independence every year
in July fourth people in America
remember the war and the signing of the
Declaration of Independence
so it's interesting July 4th wasn't the
date that America won its independence
it was a date that America said that
they wanted to be independent so that's
an important point to remember July 4th
isn't the date that America got its
independence they hadn't won the war
that haven't even started the war at
that time but that was when they
declared they want independence and so
that date is the date that people
remember and the date that they
celebrate ok so we have a reading skill
we're talking about sequence for a skill
sequence means in time order
what's 1st 2nd 3rd 4th and so on in
sequence so what we can see here is we
can see three events that happened in
sequence this happened first
this happened second this was the third
or last thing
that happened we need to fill in the
blanks in our story these are the words
we use to fill in the blanks
independence the United States George
Washington and freedom let's fill in the
blanks with these words first Americans
wanted beep from England what do people
want from another place they if they
want to be free from control they want
what they want their independence from
another thing so America's Americans
wanted freedom from England this man
wanted freedom from his company for
example you get a person gets freedom
from another person or a country or
organization Americans signed the
Declaration of what they wanted to be
free from control they wanted to be
independent right so they signed the
Declaration of Independence then what
happened America had a war with England
as a result of this who was a famous
leader in the war who was a famous
leader well we can see down here this
name right here George Washington was a
famous leader in the war and then in the
in the end at the end of the story
America won the war and became what what
did America become there were 13
colonies those colonies became States so
America became the United States those
13 colonies didn't become different
countries they become united into one
country so they became States ok let's
take a look at the reading comprehension
questions number one America was once a
beep of England remember England had
many regions around the world that they
controlled that they ruled those were
what they were of course called leader
colony or ruler they were called
colonies America was one colony of
England England had many colonies all
around the world so not leader not ruler
but colony
okay number two George Washington was a
what was George Washington a famous King
was he a king of a country I wasn't a
king George Washington was a famous
English man or he was an Englishman well
before the war he was an Englishman but
more important during the war he became
an American that's not really an
appropriate answer George Washington was
a what a famous leader yeah he was a
famous leader during the war he helped
lead the Americans to victory over the
English and it's interesting to number
be because if you think about it all
Americans were English men or English
women before the war but after the war
they became Americans but George
Washington was a famous leader that's a
more appropriate answer okay in
America's war with England during the
war with England a England became a
colony of America be George Washington
was a king see soldiers fought many
battles which answer sounds correct
let's look at a America's war with
England England became a colony of
America so America won the war and then
took over England and ruled England from
America
no that didn't happen America was not
that strong they all they just barely
won the war by themselves so that's not
true be George Washington was a king no
we already saw that George Washington
was not a king see soldiers fought many
battles well yeah sure and that's
happens in all wars right in any war not
just America's war with England soldiers
fought many battles in all wars soldiers
fight many battles so the answer is see
number four in the early 18th century
before 1776 remember 18th century is the
1700 s 1776 is not early it's late right
so in the early 18th century before 1776
Americans what a sign the Declaration of
Independence be were ruled by the king
of England see
fought England in a long war which one
is true a signed the Declaration of
Independence no because it says before
1776 in the early 18th century that's
not true they signed the Declaration of
Independence in 1776 not before ok be
we're ruled by the king of England
well that's true isn't it because in the
early 1700s America was ruled by the
king of England see fought England in a
long war no there wasn't a long war with
England before that ok now we've come to
our chart again and we're kind of using
this as a summary to tell the story of
the beginning of the United States so we
see three different pictures showing the
different events in order first second
and last in telling the story of how
America became independent it's the
beginning of the United States over here
we can see this first picture we see all
these men here they are representing the
13 colonies of America colonies that
were ruled by England now they didn't
like to be ruled by England they wanted
to be free from that rule so on July 4th
1776 the 13 colonies agreed on the
Declaration of Independence they
declared their desire to be independence
to King George the British King so
that's why on every July 4th Americans
celebrate their independence on
Independence Day they call it
Independence Day
so that's what happened first after that
King George didn't like it right he said
no you can't be independent so Americans
fought a war with England to get freedom
and this of course is a picture showing
the war over here you have the Redcoats
the English soldiers and here you have
the American militia who are fighting
against the British so there was a
bloody war a very long war many battles
were fought many soldiers on both sides
died finally in the end Americans won
the war the 13 colonies
became the United States of America the
13 colonies became States and they
became the United States of America and
that is how America began that is the
beginning of the United States so this
lesson was kind of telling a story how
did the United States become a country
what was the beginning as we can see
before it was a colony it was ruled by
King George they didn't like that so
they declared their independence they
had a war George Washington was a very
famous leader an American leader during
the war because of his strong efforts
and the efforts of the people who who
supported him and stayed with him
Americans won the war of independence
and they became their own country the
United States of America so it's kind of
an interesting history lesson today I
hope you've enjoyed learning about that
and we'll see you next time take care
everybody
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02