ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 03
[People Find New Homesâ€‹](https://youtu.be/Ckrp_HVD3LI)

America is a country with many people who have moved from other countries. 
From the 17th century, many immigrants wanted to move from Europe to the United States. 
To do this, they had to cross the Atlantic Ocean.
The people who come to the United States nowadays come from all over the world. 
They come to the United States with their cultures.
These new immigrants often have a different language, clothes, food, and recreation activities. 
Learning and sharing different cultures helps us get along with each other. 
People look and speak differently, but all cultures and people are special.


Transcript
[Music]
hey kids welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart
we're on lesson three right now lesson
three the topic is people find new homes
so an interesting topic right if you
look at the country a country for
example like America
that's a new home in this unit you will
discover the u.s. is a country with
people from all over the world from all
over the world so it's like people find
new homes and this is very true for
America many people from all over the
world find a new home in America let's
take a look at this subject first of all
what is a country if we talk about a
country what do we mean by that a
country is a particular area a
particular like unique or a certain area
with its own people and own government
very important right a country has its
own government if it has a different
government it's a different country
right so a country has its own
government and of course its own people
and we can see in America this is a very
interesting map of America you can see
many many different types of people so
but there are all Americans right and
there they have their own people and
especially their own government there's
only one government for all of these
people now when we talk about people who
move from one country and they move to
another country right we can talk about
immigrant an immigrant is someone who
comes to a country to live as a citizen
not a tourist right we don't mean
tourists not a tourist right a tourist
is someone who goes to another country
just to look around
and then they go back home to their own
country but an immigrant is someone who
goes to another country because they
want to live in that country they're
gonna change their country and many
people do this all over the world some
when it comes to a country a different
country to live as a citizen of course
this is a picture from a long time ago
looks like Europeans coming to America
to live America really is by the way a
country of immigrants most people in
America their parents or their parents
parents or their parents parents parents
came from another country America is
really a country of immigrants to move
okay we're talking about immigrate to
immigrate or immigrants immigrants have
moved from one country to another
country so to move means to change where
a person lives of course move doesn't
just mean you move from one country to
another country you can move from one
place in a country to another place in a
country for example you could move from
New York to Los Angeles you're not an
immigrant you're just changing your city
you can move from Seoul to Pusan you're
not an immigrant you're just changing
your city you're moving you're changing
where you live move of course is a verb
to move okay
language when we move to different
countries or when immigrants come to a
country we have to think about languages
different languages language of course
is the means of human communication
using either voice or letters right now
I'm using my voice I'm communicating
with you I'm using a language to
communicate with you
what is the language yes it's English
I'm communicating with you in English
I'm using my voice and I'm also using
letters you can see the letters on this
slide and I'm communicating with
using a language and that language is
English
normally you communicate with your
friends and family in Korean so there
are different languages so language is
the means of human communication using
voice or using letters I've never seen
anybody do that though I've never seen
letters come out of somebody's mouth
okay it's just an interesting picture
okay
it's a Jimmy Jimmy dodging right it's an
interesting picture okay or maybe he's
eating the letters no I'm just kidding
I'm just kidding okay but anyways you
get the idea it's he's speaking he's
saying something so he's using his voice
or you can write down the letters okay
different something that's different not
the same we don't want things to be the
same all the time do we that's boring
it's interesting if things are different
what is different mean different not the
same if everybody looked the same Oh
normal normal shim-sham Hale right
normal it's very boring
we want to see difference right so we
see somebody who's different that's
great all right it's changed but don't
be too different right still be a nice
person right but it's nice to see
difference it's nice to see something
that's not the same okay so we're
talking about different here okay
get along no we just talked about
different right not everybody is the
same and that's good right we don't want
everybody to be the same because that's
boring
we it's nice to have difference but like
I said be nice just because you're
different doesn't mean that you should
do bad things right that's not what we
want we want people to get along get
along means to live with others without
trouble no trouble okay if you get along
with other people it means you live with
other people and you're happy they're
happy hey you like each other your
friends you can be different
no problem that's cool but you don't
want to have trouble between people
right you want everybody to be happy and
if you everybody is happy and everybody
likes each other and they enjoy being
with each other then
they are getting along it's very good to
get along with other people and even if
they're different who cares you can
learn from them and say well that's cool
that's different that's neat and so
that's a good idea right so get along
with other people even if they are
different okay now we talked to pedal a
bit about all over the world at the
beginning of this lesson I said people
come from all over the world to come to
America all over the world it's a bit
it's not one word right it's an
expression but it's a good expression to
remember as one unit it's a good point
when you learn new words don't just
learn one word learn words in groups and
expressions this is a good expression to
remember all over the world
it means anywhere or everywhere in the
world all over the world
anywhere in the world or everywhere in
the world if you say I want to go all
over the world that means you want to go
everywhere in the world if you say
people are coming from all over the
world it means they're coming from
anywhere in the world so it means
anywhere on earth all over the world we
have a new word here an interesting word
recreation recreation recreation
recreation means a thing to do for fun
and during free time so when you have
free time take a break from studying if
it's a nice day go outside have some fun
do some fun activity that's called a
recreation right recreation means also
means to have fun by the way recreation
we can also say hangout when people hang
out they're having fun they're hanging
out with their friends they're spending
time with their friends maybe going to a
movie going to a coffee shop sitting
around talking they're hanging out
hanging out is a common type of
recreation doing something for fun
okay we have our chart here we're
talking about people finding new homes
people moving from one country to live
in another country and we can see that
when that happens immigrants bring their
cultures they bring their cultures with
them so what parts of their culture do
they bring with them will they bring
their language right there's many
different languages you can say in
English thank you in German danke in
Italian the cannot see right or there's
a lots of different all feeling donkeys
up here that's German I don't know what
some of these other ones are Oh gracias
gracias that's Spanish right so many
different languages we can't know all
the different languages in the world but
we know a few of them language is part
of culture food that's an important
thing that immigrants bring with them
especially if they come and they meet
other immigrants from the same country
they bring food America has a lot of
different types of food because there
are many immigrants like I said before
America is a land of immigrants so
there's so many different kinds of food
there's Italian food there's Chinese
food there's Mexican food so many
different types of food okay so they
bring that's part of their culture that
they bring with them clothes there's
lots of different styles of clothes in
fact where I went to school I went to
college University in Salt Lake City
there's a large Greek population in Salt
Lake City sometimes during the year they
have a Greek Festival and you can see
people wearing special clothes from
Greece another place I lived in was in
Nevada and there are people from Spain
called Basque
people and they have different festivals
they wear different clothes and have
games and they even have their own
language so it's very interesting to
look at the different clothes that
people wear even in America that they
brought from their home country okay a
recreation of course there's many things
people do I just gave you an example
right when Greeks or Basque people have
festivals
they have certain things that they do
some types of games maybe some types of
contests maybe they have maybe they just
sing it's not a game or contest is just
singing or dancing recreation doing
something for fun there's so many
different things that people do from
different cultures now it's interesting
all of these are coming right
all of these are coming to the United
States by different people from all over
the world they're bringing their
language they're bringing their food
they're bringing their clothes they're
bringing their recreational activities
and they're bringing them all to the
United States because again America is a
nation of immigrants okay let's take a
look oh there's no video where's the
video what's going on
oh well it's anything happening here oh
we've got something here comes somebody
oh there's another person well look at
all these people
there's red white and blue red white and
blue what are those colors those colors
of course are the national colors of
America Wow pretty cool huh see like I
said before America is a land of
immigrants you have many different
people making up the country and this of
course is symbolic this is a symbol
right this looks like the flag of the
United States and it also looks like the
shape of the country yeah blue white and
red stripes right so blue and white for
the stars and red and white for the
stripes of the flag but it's also the
idea that it's not just one color it's
not just one group it's many different
groups coming together and living
together and hopefully getting along
okay
now it's time to do our word matching
exercise match the word to the
definition you ready here we have our
words country country immigrants
immigrants move very easy language
language different different and get
along get along okay let's match these
words to their definitions number one
not
the same not the same they are not the
same they are of course different right
they're different they are not the same
so something is not the same as
everything else that thing is different
or that person is different number two
to change where a person lives so you're
in one place and you want to live in
another place what do you do what do you
do of course you move right move is our
answer number three to live with others
without any trouble no trouble to live
together or side by side or near other
people no trouble what is that that of
course is get along you want to get
along with other people you don't want
to have trouble with other people you
want to be happy you want to get along
with other people enjoy their company
right for someone who comes to a country
to live as a citizen so somebody who
comes from another country they come to
this country and they live as a citizen
what do we call them which one of these
words is someone who comes to a country
that's right it's immigrant immigrant is
a person someone a person who comes to a
country to live as a citizen number five
number five is a little difficult the
means of the means of human
communication using voice or letters
write all these letters l ET te RS using
voice or letters what do we say we say
of course that is language language by
the way just thought of something
some students call these not letters
sometimes I hear students call these
alphabets these are not alphabets right
if you're looking at each letter in a
word don't say alphabets say letter
alphabet is the set of letters it's all
the letters okay but M is a letter O is
a letter V is a letter E is a letter so
when you use
editor's when you write letters your
spelling words of course letters all of
them together that makes an alphabet so
be careful there I hear some mistakes in
that area okay number six a particular
area with its own people and government
so we're talking about a particular area
a certain area that has its own people
and its own government what do we call
that of course that is called a country
a country particularly its own people
and especially its own government okay
let's take a look at a chart here
immigrants in the United States where do
they come from we talked about many you
know America is a nation of immigrants
we talked about all over the world but
specifically where do they come from
where do most immigrants to America come
from well we see a nice chart here we
see in the past and we see nowadays in
the past before 1960 most immigrants
were coming from these countries
especially in the beginning most
immigrants came from Great Britain but
also at the same time many immigrants
also came from Germany these two
countries were very common for early
Americans the the first Europeans to
come to America were usually English or
German there are also many Polish and
many Italians that followed afterwards
especially Italian that came a little
bit later but that's before 1960s
nowadays these days now
most immigrants are coming from where
interesting idea
well of course many immigrants are
coming from Mexico that's easy because
Mexico is just south of America it's
very easy to get to America from Mexico
and unfortunately many Mexicans have a
hard time in their country because it's
it's harder to find jobs and other
political and economic situation is not
as good as in America so many Mexicans
do
to move to America many immigrants come
there India there's many people in India
are going to America a lot of times it's
Indians who go there who go there to
study a lot of engineering medical
students come to India they look around
America they say well there's a nice
place I'd like to stay here and
sometimes they can bring their families
so that's a very common situation of
course many people from India also are
coming they're not students they're just
looking for a better working environment
or better working conditions and of
course there's many people also coming
from China these days again a similar
kind of idea they're looking for not
only better economic opportunities but
also freer political system a democratic
system because China is not democratic
so these this is very interesting to
look at where most immigrants come from
this chart doesn't mean that only these
countries are sending immigrants these
countries are the most common countries
where immigrants are coming from but of
course you can find immigrants from all
over the world in America who are living
in America now you know from Africa from
different parts of the Caribbeans from
South America there are immigrants from
all over the country living in America
in fact in Korea too many places in
America you can go and you can find
Koreatown or you can find Korean
restaurants I really didn't notice it
before but after living in Korea
sometimes when I go back to America I'll
be walking along I see well there's a
sign in Korean it's a say tax all right
this is America am i back in Korea no
it's just a small community of Korean
immigrants who come to America to live
so that's very interesting you it's kind
of common actually in many big cities in
America you can see these types of signs
okay let's take a look at the mini quiz
complete the sentence to best describe
the pictures so here's our sentence here
there are several pictures here okay the
picture of here it's a certain type of
food isn't it of course you know what
kind of food this is you know it right
away right it's pizza all right pizza by
the way
where does pizza come from what's the
idea here
Pizza comes from Italy right people
think that it's Italian food so that's
something that Italian immigrants have
brought to America over here what's
going on here looks like a parade right
there's a big dragon here so it looks
like it's a parade for maybe Chinese New
Year's right so that's a parade just a
parade going on here a parade and it
looks like Chinese new year's parade
maybe in San Francisco oh yeah over here
what are these guys doing and who are
these people right this is very
interesting these people this is also a
parade but where do these people come
from here you see people wearing green
and they're wearing the little hat
they're supposed to be leprechauns
left that's kind of a hard word left
oops my pen a pro/con leprechauns a
leprechaun is somebody from Ireland okay
so these people are from Ireland and
also these people four are from Scotland
they are blowing bagpipes oops
that's an A not a G a bag pipes so these
people are from Ireland and also from
Scotland okay Great Britain okay so
bagpipes leprechauns these people are
supposed to be leprechauns so what are
they what are they doing they have they
have food we have certain types of
parades certain types of holidays and we
have certain types of music and dress
what are all these things immigrants
bring their cultures with them okay it's
now time to go over our true/false
questions let's take a look at these
sentences see if they're true or if they
are false
number one get along so we're just
looking at these two words here is one
unit or one item of vocabulary
get-along means to change where a person
lives so if you want to change where you
live you want to get along to another
place does that sound right
that's not right that's false not get
along
and get along means to live with other
people and have no troubles no problems
so that's not correct to change where a
person lives what what is that what
means that of course you know it's move
we just talked about that move means to
change where a person lives not get
along so I have to change it that's
false number two an immigrant is someone
who comes to a country to live so an
immigrant is a person right yes it is an
immigrant is a person a person who does
what who comes to a country to live
that's true we say an immigrant is
someone who comes to a new country to
live and they moved from another place
three a country is a thing to do for fun
during free time so all of these are
definitions right get-along means to an
immigrant is here a country is a country
is a thing to do a country is an
activity we say a country a place to
live is an activity that doesn't sound
right right there we can see that that's
false
right a country is not a thing to do a
country is a place so we have to change
this what is a thing to do for fun
during free time what word did we learn
that means it's a thing to do for fun
during free time I gave you an example
hang out is a lot of is something that
people do for fun or during free time
remember what we said it's one word
starting with our recreation recreation
is a thing to do for fun during free
time we have to change it it's false ok
well that wraps up the vocabulary
section the vocabulary section let's
take a short break here we'll come back
and we'll take a look at the reading
passage so don't go away ok let's go
over the reading passage together again
we're talking about America is a nation
of immigrants right here we have Amer
is a country with many people who have
moved from other countries that's
exactly what we're talking about right
America that's the name of the country
is a country with a country with now we
have some definition about that country
with many people paying then we have
with many people who and we have some
definition about the people who have
moved from other countries it's kind of
a complicated sentence America is a
country with many people people who have
moved from other countries so again it
comes back to the idea that America is a
land of many immigrants from the 17th
century the 17th century is a long time
ago right so as a history of immigrants
from the 17th century many immigrants
wanted to move from Europe to the United
States
ok so we're talking about immigrants
right people who move from one place to
another they wanted to move from Europe
to the United States to do this in order
to do this how did they do this to do
this they had to cross the Atlantic
Ocean now again we're talking about the
17th century it's a long time ago there
were no airplanes it took a long time
they had to get in a boat and the boat
didn't have a motor it had sails so if
there's no wind it took a really long
time and the waves were going like this
up and down for months it's a very
difficult journey but people came from
Europe to the United States crossing the
Atlantic Ocean the people who come to
the United States nowadays come from all
over the world so basically in the 17th
century the people who came to the
United States were from Europe but
nowadays in these times people come from
all over the world it's not just
Europeans it's
Asians it's Africans its South Americans
it's everywhere all around the world
people are coming to America they who's
they people who come to the United
States these people here they come to
the United States with their cultures of
course as they come to the United States
they're bringing their culture with them
what kinds of culture what parts of
their culture these new immigrants again
this refers back to they which refers
back to the people who come to the
United States these new immigrants often
usually have a different language
clothes food and recreation activities
so all of these things here are talking
about culture right they bring their
different cultures they bring their
language they bring their clothes they
bring their food and they bring their
recreation activities they're different
from each other they're different from
what is going on in America when they
come there right when the Italians first
started coming to America they found
mostly British people English or German
people and Italians had different food
they had different dress they had
different language so they brought those
things with them okay and it became it
got all mixed up together right
okay so learning and sharing the
different cultures helps us get along
with each other so people are bringing
different dress they're wearing
different clothes they're speaking in a
different language sometimes they look
differently the different color of skin
but it's important that we learn and we
can share that way we can get along with
each other if somebody is different that
doesn't mean that they're it's bad it's
good it's cool it's neat if everybody is
the same could be kind of boring we can
learn and share culture and language and
customs with each other
it makes our mind bigger it makes us
interested in many of
countries around the world and that's
great right and we can get along with
each other better people look and speak
differently right but all cultures and
all people are special just because
people might look and speak in different
ways it that's okay
because everybody is special you know
everybody's special everybody is unique
true but it's also true that everybody's
kind of the same really a lot of
different you know even if you're from
Korea you're from America you're from
Europe you're from Africa people have
the same ideas really they have the same
wants and desires and of course
everybody is special in their own way
let's take a look at a video here this
is a video looks like a demonstration in
America and by the way this IMP
demonstration I can't know just by
looking at the demonstration sometimes
it's hard to know what's going on but if
you read the signs you can see some
interesting things this sign is coming
up here stop the deep Pore I think it
says deportation because before I saw a
sign that said IC e IC e is the
government organization in charge of
immigration now that's interesting
because in America America is a nation
of immigrants right most Americans came
from another place but nowadays there
are too many immigrants some Americans
some Americans say there are too many
immigrants right and they want to stop
immigrants from coming so these people
are demonstrating against that they're
saying wait stop the deportations that
means stop sending people out of the
country right allow them to come here
allow more immigrants so America is kind
of going through this kind of transition
from accepting immigrants historically
to saying wait we have too many
immigrants so it's kind of a
controversial issue in America these
days okay so anyway main idea and
details America is a country with people
who moved from other countries and
that's true you look at America there's
people from all
the place in fact it's kind of
interesting to give you some personal
history
my parents my my dad his family is
Scottish from Scotland my mom's family
is from Germany and Italy so you see
people get together and they mix
together and many Americans have this
type of shared ancestry or shared you
know they're they're not just from one
country there are cultures from many
different countries especially if they
their families have lived in America for
a long time so America is a country with
people who moved from other countries
that's our main idea we have three
details to support that idea first
detail is here second third we have
blanks three blanks we have to fill in
those blanks with these words down here
immigrants cultures and a phrase all
over the world let's take a look from
the 17th century long time ago bep from
Europe moved to the United States so
we're looking for people right people
from Europe which one describes people
immigrants cultures or all over the
world of course it's immigrants
immigrants from Europe moved to the
United States that's a long time ago
when America first became or was first
becoming but before America became a
nation America became a nation in the
18th century but a long time ago when
America was first being settled by
Europeans immigrants of course from
Europe came to the United States that's
a long time ago nowadays these days
people come to the United States from
from where from all over the world
from all over the world people come to
America in the last detail immigrants
come to the United States with their
what when immigrants move from one
country to another country what do they
bring with them well they're bringing
their language they're bringing their
clothes they're bringing their food and
they're bringing their recreational
activities what do we call all those
things
together we call that their culture
their cultures immigrants come to the
United States with their cultures and
that's what we've been talking about
okay so that's interesting that is our
main idea and these are the details okay
let's go over the reading comprehension
questions how well do you remember the
reading passage let's take a look what
is something you do for fun in your free
time something you do for fun in your
free time
recreation language or immigrates do you
do language for fun in your free time do
you study English for fun you might but
probably not most people don't I'm sure
okay sorry okay
see do you immigrate very fun hey let's
do something fun let's immigrate that's
crazy right you wouldn't do that
that's very difficult actually so of
course what is something you do for fun
in your free time the definition of
course is recreation right not language
or unfortunately not language some
people study language for fun but most
people don't it's difficult I know and
also we don't immigrate for fun then
everybody we'd be moving all the time
that's crazy
okay number two it is important to beep
your parents it is important to do what
with your parents move with your parents
well that could be B go with your
parents depends on the situation
C get along with let's think about all
the time all the time what is it
important to do to move with your
parents go with your parents or get
along with your parents of course it's
important to get along with your parents
all the time and that means so that you
don't have any troubles and your parents
get along with you not just your parents
but also your friends your classmates
your teachers it's important to get
along with other people ok we're on
number three number three to move to the
United States
what do yer appiah n--'s have to do what
do yer appiah n--'s have to do to get to
the united states a they have to cross
the atlantic ocean well that makes sense
right because europe is here um
here what's between the Atlantic Ocean
so they had to get in a boat and cross
the Atlantic Ocean to get to America so
that is the correct answer let's just do
B and C for practice B they have to
bring their culture and clothes they
have to know they don't have to they
could leave it behind get new clothes
and adopt a new culture when they get to
America so B isn't correct C they have
to speak the same language as others
they don't have to in fact many
Europeans when they came to America they
spoke their own language and their
children learned English so that's not
true either the correct answer is a
number for new immigrants often have
what a B or C a the same clothes
language and recreation activities we
have a problem here because new
immigrants could be from different
countries also they're coming to a new
country where things are different so
they don't have the same clothes
language and recreation activities as
the natives or even other immigrants
that come at the same time if Italians
Germans and Polish people come at the
same time they don't all have the same
thing they don't have the same clothes
they have different clothes that's B
different language clothes and
recreation activities B is the answer
there
new immigrants often have different
language clothes and recreation
activities let's look at C European
languages clothes and recreation
activities that doesn't fit because
remember new immigrants could be from
all over the world
not just Europe so new immigrants from
Asia don't have European languages
clothes and recreation activities so
that's not true either ok let's move on
to our chart immigrants bring their
cultures true what do they bring so
we're talking about immigrants from
other countries all over the world
they're coming to America right what are
they bringing with them they are
bringing what what is it
thank you thank you vielen dank gracias
grazie what is that
that's language right here
are you hungry I get hungry looking at
this picture right there's many
different types of what many different
types of food and these types of food
are coming from all different countries
in fact I've heard it said that in
America the most popular food is Italian
food the second most popular is Chinese
food and the third most popular is
Mexican food so I'm thinking what about
American food what is American food
hi American food really is a mix of food
from all different countries so lots of
different cultures bring their language
and their food they also bring what
these people are wearing different
clothing or clothes so people bring
different styles of dress they bring
different clothes to America and it's
very distinct you can see somebody from
Germany who wears German traditional
clothes and somebody from Greece who
wears Greek traditional clothes they're
very different and you can figure that
out just by looking at their clothes now
of course they also bring what else
things they do for fun things they do in
their spare time and that of course is
recreation so they bring all these
different things to America which is the
United States right the United States
they bring all these different things to
the United States and that's why the
United States is sometimes called a
country of immigrants because really
most of the people in America their
parents or their parents parents have
come from another country so this is
unit our lesson three people find new
homes and we're talking about people who
are moving from one country to another
country they are called immigrants they
bring their culture with them they bring
language food clothes recreation
activities to America and that's why
America is called the nation of
immigrants so very interesting so think
about that though when you think about
America and you asked if you meet
somebody from America remember that
you know if you ask them well what kind
of food do you eat in America or what do
you do in America
remember the answers could be very
different depending on that person's
cultural background or where their
parents or family came from sure there
are some American activities that most
Americans do but everybody has their own
different background right so it's very
interesting to think about it and if you
do go to America keep your eyes open
try to see if you can find out where
people in a certain area of America
where they came from
sometimes you can see very strong German
influence or Mexican influence or even
Korean influence like I told you
sometimes I'm surprised by seeing Korean
signs in America so it's very
interesting anyway hope you've enjoyed
this lesson I certainly did I'll see you
guys next time take care
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02