ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 01
[The First Americans](https://youtu.be/uRtvF4D_TXMâ€‹)

The first people to live in North America are called Native Americans. 
Native Americans had their own culture. 
They made many things using their hands. 
A bow, arrow, net, and canoe were used to hunt and to fish.
Craftworks like baskets and pottery were used to store crops such as corn. 
Native Americans also had their own style of dress, their own dances, and their own art culture.
There were many Native American groups living in North America before Europeans came. 
Native Americans helped them settle in many ways.
Europeans and the Native Americans affected each other. 


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart we're
going over the first lesson in social
studies book two so welcome I hope you
learn a lot in this book in the first
lesson we are going to go over the first
Americans the first Americans
interesting idea right not necessarily
the Americans who are there now but the
Americans who were there first and we
can see some pictures associated with
that here in this unit you will discover
the first people to live in America are
called Native Americans so these people
who are in America for a very long time
before the Europeans came we call those
people Native Americans when we talk
about different groups of people like
Native Americans or Europeans we can
talk about culture because different
groups of people have different ways of
doing things we call that culture
culture is a way how a way of life of a
group and organization or a country so
it's interesting it's a group an
organization or a country has different
ways of life or ways of doing things a
group can be for example like a group of
Boy Scouts or Hank Boy Scouts is a group
they have a certain type of culture they
have a certain way that they dress they
have certain slogans or certain signs
that they make so they have a certain
culture an organization like a company
all Boy Scouts of America is also an
organization but a company can also have
a culture like a company culture how do
those people dress how do they act that
can be a culture too and of course a
country a country is a nation of people
and they have certain cultures are
certain things that they do that is
according to their culture so groups
groups
the groups of people people who have the
same ethnic group organizations like Boy
Scouts of America or a company and a
country like America or other country
all have different culture a way of life
a way to live
certain ways that they dress certain
things that they do
now we're talking about Native Americans
in this unit Native Americans of course
are the people who were living in North
America before the Europeans if you
remember history Europeans came to North
America starting with well people say
starting with Christopher Columbus is
when most Europeans started coming over
to America and they found people already
living there those people who are
already there are called Native
Americans now when we talk about native
what is a native who is a native a
native is a person born and existing in
a particular place or country so if you
were born in Korea you are a native of
Korea if you were born in America like
this boy seems to have been he is a
Native American somebody who is born in
a place or existing if you go to a new
country and you see the people there
those are the natives they exist in that
country they live in that country they
are the natives there let's take a look
at a video these is a video of Native
Americans and you can see that their
culture is quite interesting they are
wearing different sorts of clothes and
they are dancing in a certain way so
this is the way that they live for many
many years hundreds of years this is the
culture that this group has developed
okay now to hunt when we talk about
Native Americans of course Native
Americans were a group of people who
lived before modern times and they had
they of course there much of their
culture their way of life they did
certain activities one of
those activities was to hunt hunt means
to chase and kill animals for their meat
or skin of course before modern times if
we wanted to get meat if we wanted to
have a steak we couldn't just go to the
store and buy one we had to go out and
hunt an animal for its meat and of
course that's that was very common many
hundreds of years ago we also if we want
to eat fish we have to go out and catch
a fish fish means to try to catch fish
to try it doesn't mean you're successful
right if you say I'm fishing
it doesn't mean you caught a fish it
means you're trying to catch a fish
hopefully you will be lucky and you will
catch that fish okay so two fish means
to try and catch a fish and that's what
they're doing they're using a fishing
pole a fishing pole and line and they
are trying to catch a fish if they get a
fish they will be very happy this is a
fishing pole have you gone fishing
before maybe you've gone fishing with
your dad or your mom or your family it's
very interesting and fun activity but a
long time ago people had to fish in
order to eat craft work craft work is an
interesting word craft it's really two
words craft and work craft is some type
of art or sometimes something that you
make with your hands when you use your
hands to make something you're engaged
in crafts work of course is a work of
art it's an object so crafts work is
work made by special skills especially
when you're working with your hands you
have certain skills somebody who makes a
basket here they're working with their
hands and it's they have to have special
skills to make such a beautiful basket
as this people who work in wood and they
make nice things out of wood that is
also craft work they're engaged in a
craft settle
to settle means to go and live in a
place to go and live in a place this
bird has settled down in this nest by
the way I think this is a fake bird this
looks like it doesn't look like a real
bird
it looks like a maybe a little toy but
anyways it could be a real bird it's
very hard to find out in this picture
isn't it but anyway this is a nest these
birds will come here they'll make their
nest and they will settle in this area
but we can also talk about people
especially a long time ago when large
groups of people would leave one place
and go to another place and they would
settle down there they would stop and
they would start living there and they
would develop the land and raise crops
and raise animals make farms and houses
and they would live there and that's
called to settle to settle the land or
to go settle somewhere else in modern
times we still do that some people want
to change their countries so they might
move from one country and settle in
another country
so that is still something that people
do affect affect means to make a change
in something or someone if you affect
someone you make a change in that person
if you affect some thing you change that
thing so to affect is very important
that you're making a change in something
or someone here we have our chart we're
talking about culture here we're talking
about the first Americans so it's very
important when we talk about the first
Americans that we talk about their
culture how did the first Americans the
Native Americans how did they live what
did they do well we can see very many
different things about the culture of
Native Americans first of all we can see
a little bit about how they hunted of
course they had to be very good hunters
to get meat to eat this person here
they're riding on a horse they have a
spirit they are hunt
Buffalo so especially in the middle part
of America the Native Americans who
lived there they would hunt Buffalo they
were very good buffalo hunters and they
followed the Buffalo around and they
would hunt the Buffalo of course they
hunt many other types of animals like
deer and wild boars things like that so
they would hunt different types of
animals fish of course also if you're
hungry and you live near a lake or you
live near the ocean you can fish and you
can get fish to eat
you can try remember fish doesn't mean
that you're successful it just means
you're trying to catch fish and there's
many kinds of ways to try to fish
clothing now Native American clothing
was very special very colorful and very
beautiful but sometimes it was used they
just used simple materials we can see a
video here this is a type of Native
American cloth that they made these of
course are blankets in Native Americans
were very are very good at making
different types of designs and patterns
for blankets and here we can see a shirt
so they're very colorful and had
different patterns sometimes normal
American Native American clothing was
kind of simple it was just deer skin or
buffalo skin but sometimes they can make
very beautiful and very nice patterns
for their clothing farming now of course
farming was done hundreds of years ago
Native Americans were of course very
good at farming in fact the first
European settlers who came over from
Europe they had a hard time living in a
new land they didn't know what plants
were good for growing so the Native
Americans helped the Europeans plant and
and create farms so that the Europeans
could get food to live so the Native
Americans were also engaged in farming
over here we see housing Native
Americans had special types of houses
and you probably know the name of those
right housing we called those TPS
T P a TP is a special type of house for
Native Americans they lived in these and
there were very convenient houses
because they were made of sticks wrapped
with a stick wrapped with skins from
animals like deer a buffalo
but the convenient thing was they could
pack it up and move it because many
Native American groups they like I said
before they followed the Buffalo so they
always have to keep moving so their
teepees were very mobile these this
isn't a video of some teepees this is
modern day of course and this is an
example probably they're having a
festival or affair and it's at a Native
American area maybe a reservation where
they have teepees set up and you can see
the sticks right the very long pieces of
wood that are arranged in a circle and
then you put the skin around those to
keep warmth inside and to stay out of
the rain and of course they're very easy
to pack up and to move because Native
Americans many Native Americans moved a
lot not all of them but especially in
the middle of America they moved to
follow the animals that they lived on
that's housing craft work of course we
talked about craft work this is an
example of a bag this is types of craft
work there are many unique and beautiful
things that a Native Americans make in
fact when I go back home my parents live
in Arizona and sometimes we will go to
where near where my parents live there
is a place in the mountains you can park
your car you walk around and many Native
Americans have tables and on the tables
they have many different types of craft
work here is an example of a bag but you
can also very typically find jewelry
like earrings or belt buckles or a
brooch some type of jewelry made with
turquoise or some other minerals or gems
and especially silver Native Americans
use a lot of silver to make jewelry in
that area in the southwest but anyway
there's a lot of different types of
craft work for different areas in
America
the Native Americans made okay let's
move on to the exercise we need to match
these words with the different
definitions okay we have the words here
culture culture Native Americans Native
Americans native native hunt hunt fish
it's easy craft work craft work
okay let's match these with their
definitions number one to try to catch
fish well that's easy fish to try to
catch fish fish right it's funny because
fish is a noun but fish is also a verb
so fish is a noun it's the animal that
swims in the water and fish is a verb to
try to catch one of them is to fish so
we use it in two ways we use it as a
verb we use it as a noun to work made by
special skills so if you have special
skills especially working with your
hands you can make this type of work
what kind of work is it it's craft work
because craft is making something using
a special skill craft work 3 to chase
and kill animals for their meat or skin
so Native Americans had to do this they
had to follow the Buffalo in order to
get the meat and the skin and what were
they doing they of course were hunting
to chase and kill an animal for its meat
or skin is to hunt number four a way of
life of a group an organization or a
country so if a certain group of people
an organization or a country has a
certain way of doing things a certain
way of living what do we call that way
of living we call that way of living a
culture what is their culture
number five born especially born born
and existing in a particular place or
country so if you are born in Korea you
are a leap of
Kariya you are a native of Korea
somebody who is born in that country
they are a native of that country six
the people who were living in North
America before Europeans so in North
America there were people who were
living there before the Europeans
started coming over in large numbers
what do we call these people we call
them of course Native Americans here
Native Americans okay let's take a look
at our chart here our chart is Native
American art when we're talking about
art of course a lot of art is craft work
too right
a lot of craft work is art it's very
beautiful very well made let's take a
look at some examples Native American
art one very famous type of Native
American art is the dance Native
American tribes tribes I'll write that
here tribe or tribes many Native
American tribes have different dances
for different things there was of course
is the famous rain dance people talk
about the rain dance when the Indians
would dance in a certain way and they
they're hoping that it would rain are
they believed that they could make it
rain by dancing in a certain way there's
also dances for hunting there's dances
for different types of activities for
that Native Americans did and they're
very interesting and very amazing to
look at let's look at a video of an
American Native American dance okay it's
a lot of jumping around of course a lot
of up and down and of course they they
go around and the important thing is too
that they have different dresses and
they have different things that they're
holding in their hands particular to
their culture many of these things of
course are made from things in nature
you see a lot of feathers from eagles or
other types of birds and of course you
see headdresses these things they're
wearing on their head those are
headdresses and these are that's an
example of a Native American dance okay
so that's one type of art
another type of art is painting and this
is very interesting this looks this is a
cave painting it looks like it's in the
American West you see the cave on the
outside but you see this very colorful
painting up here
that was maybe painted hundreds of years
ago and many cultures express themselves
with painting let's take a look at this
these are this is a special kind of
painting it's called a petroglyph and
you can see these on cliffs and on rocks
especially in the southwest where the
climate is very dry people made these
hundreds and hundreds of years ago and
when we come along we're not really sure
what they mean or why they made them but
we can admire them and we can be amazed
at how old they are actually I just said
this is in the southwest we know this is
in the southwest because you see this
plant right here that's a very tall
cactus and that is very common in
Arizona where I said my parents are
living now so this looks like this is in
Arizona and Native Americans lived in
this area for hundreds and hundreds of
years and they're left behind these
types of carvings are our paintings on
rocks and in caves
another type of Native American art
that's very famous is this type here
these are totem poles now these are very
famous in the northwest north west
America up near Washington State Oregon
State the Native Americans who lived up
there they didn't move they stayed in
permanent villages and they built these
big totem poles it's very interesting
let's take a look at a video of them
they built these totem poles for to put
in front of their houses or in their
villages for certain symbolic reasons
and they're very very beautiful as you
can see you have many different animals
and like faces of people on top of each
other and they symbolise different
things they may symbol it and some
people say that they tell a story some
of these totem poles may tell a story
about events that happened a long long
time
but you see they're very interesting
they're made of course out of trees they
they take a long time to carve them they
put other pieces of wood for for the
wings if they're making a bird shape and
they're painted very very nicely and
very beautifully they're very
distinctive or unique types of Native
American art totem poles okay let's take
a look at the pictures and complete the
sentence we have different types of
pictures here our sentences Native
Americans had their own B had their own
what let's look at the pictures
well they had their own dances they had
their own artwork and they had their own
types of housing right and they of
course also had their own type of
clothing what is all this clothing
behavior like dances artwork like totem
poles houses a way of life they had
their own way of life which is what
which is culture right we define culture
as way of life so Native Americans had
their own culture their own way of life
okay let's look at our true/false
questions number one to settle means to
chase and kill animals for their meat
right so if you settle somewhere it
means you're chasing after animals to
hunt and kill them or oh I just said it
to kill them for their meat and I just
said it right to hunt to hunt means to
chase and kill animals for the mean not
to settle so this is wrong we have to
change settle we have to change that
word to hunt to hunt means to chase and
kill animals for their meat not to
settle we have to change it so it's
false right okay
number two culture is a way of life of a
group remember we just saw the different
picture the the housing the teepee we
saw the clothing and the dance and we
saw the totem pole that symbolizes a way
of life and we saw that people have a
certain way of life we call that a
culture so culture is a way of life of a
group yes that's true it is absolutely
true number three
Europeans were the first natives of
America so it's interesting to note here
Europeans were the first natives of
America that doesn't sound right because
European means somebody from Europe a
native of Europe is a European so how
can Europeans be the first natives of
America that doesn't make sense right
but it's not true anyway because when
Europeans came to America they found
somebody who is already there before
them who was there first and those
people were Native Americans so this is
not true it's false Europeans were not
the first natives of America Native
Americans were and of course that's in
the name Native Americans Native
Americans okay it's interesting to note
that some people will say Indians but
Indians is not a very good term to use
because it's really mistaken isn't it
when Christopher Columbus came over to
the Americas he thought that he had come
to India so he called the people there
Indians but that's not true and it's not
really accurate it's better it's more
preferable to say Native American
instead of Indian okay that's just a
little extra fact for you okay we're
gonna take a break we finished the
vocabulary section let's take a short
break we'll come back in just a few
minutes and we'll look at the reading
section together so don't go away okay
you guys ready to go over the reading
passage together let's get started now
in our first sentence here we can see
it's kind of like a topic sentence right
the first people to live in North
America are called Native Americans so
that's the topic of our reading passage
the first people we're talking about
that what do we call them we call them
Native Americans so it's like a
definition sentence we're saying who
were they
they're Native Americans who were they
they were the first people to live in
North America we call them the
of Americans we also going to narrow our
focus a little bit narrow
you know Native Americans what about
Native Americans there's many things we
could say about Native Americans we're
gonna focus on one thing about Native
Americans Native Americans had their own
culture so that's our focus right that's
what we're going to be talking about
Native Americans is our topic culture is
our focus that's what we're gonna focus
on so the rest of the passage will be
talking about culture they they refers
of course back to Native Americans
Native Americans made many things using
their hands because they didn't have
machines right nowadays we make a lot of
things in machines but a long time ago
people use their hands to make things
what did they make a bow arrow net and
canoe were used to hunt and to fish so
these things that they made with their
hands a bow right is a bow as a weapon
you use an arrow with a bow bow and
arrow a net right to throw in the water
and a canoe right to go out in the water
we're used to hunt and to fish these
things are also part of the Native
American culture because there are
unique things that they you that they
made with their hands to do what they
needed to do to live it was part of
their way of life part of their way of
life of course as we learned is culture
now besides making things that they
needed to have to survive they also made
many craft works like baskets and
pottery were used to store crops such as
corn so Native Americans would make
baskets they would make pottery and many
I talked to you guys a little bit before
about Arizona there's a lot of pottery
examples that you can find in Arizona
and other states in America from a long
time ago Indian pottery is very
interesting and people still make it
today it's still quite valuable craft
works like baskets and pottery were used
to store crops
just corn a corn was a very common crop
that Native Americans grew Native
Americans also had their own style of
dress their own dances and their own art
culture it means their own style of
these things that's their culture it was
their own their own dress their clothing
their dances the way that they danced
and their own art culture what they made
for art so this is all talking about the
culture of Native Americans we've seen
things that they used to live the tools
like bows and arrows nets and canoes
then we saw things like craft works
baskets and pottery and we're also
talking about clothing dancing and art
culture okay there were many Native
American groups living in North America
before Europeans came before I taught
you that word tribe there were many
American tribes or groups a tribe is a
group of people and these groups were
different from each other
some groups moved all the time some
groups stayed in one place some groups
just hunted some groups farmed or fished
so there were many different groups
there were actually many different types
of culture among Native Americans and
there still are of course there are many
different groups there are many
different types of culture and they were
living in North America and they still
do live there many groups have survived
and their their children are still
living in America in special areas
Native Americans help them settle okay
who is them Native Americans help them
Europeans Native Americans helped
Europeans that settle in many ways
Europeans came over to America they
wanted to settle in the new lands in the
new country is new for them it was old
for the Native Americans but they wanted
to settle there Native Americans helped
them before I showed you about the
farming I said that Indians are Native
Americans helped Europeans learn how to
farm because Europeans didn't know about
this new land
so the Native Americans helped them
Europeans and the Native Americans
affected each other
changed each other in big ways of course
the Europeans changed the Native
Americans much more than the Native
Americans changed the Europeans but
that's a different story
okay so Europeans and the Native
Americans changed the way each other
lived let's take a look at a video here
we can see a video of course of
modern-day Native Americans you can see
also maybe some people who are European
or European descent I'm not sure if
she's Indian or not but you can see the
differences are that influences you can
see people over here who look like
they're tourists and they're modern
Americans maybe not Native Americans but
of course nowadays people are all mixed
together right even though you have a
lot of Indian Native Americans here they
are showing off their culture they are
demonstrating their culture and of
course many other Americans come to see
this because many tourists are very
interested in the way Native Americans
live and also in Native American culture
okay we've come to our reading skill
chart okay and the reading skill is
talking about details okay so we have a
main idea and we have details after that
what's our main idea our main idea of
course our topic is Native Americans
Native Americans what about Native
Americans there are many details about
Native Americans here we have three main
details let's take a look we need to
fill in these blanks with these words at
the bottom culture first affected North
America okay so we need to fill in these
four blanks with these words here let's
take a look Native Americans they they
of course refers to Native Americans
they are the beep people to live in
people okay if you remember the reading
this is easy to put together right
they are the what people to live in a
certain place they are of course native
so they are the first people to live in
a certain place
what place was it
of course it was North America they are
the first people to live in North
America second they had their own beep
and art what do we do to fill in this
blank do we use culture do we use first
do we use affected to use North America
of course we already use North America
we already used first
so do we use culture or affected they
had their own culture and art that
sounds correct they had their own
culture and they had their own art of
course art is part of culture next one
Native Americans and Europeans did
something to each other what did they do
to each other of course our only word
left is affected and that's true Native
Americans and Europeans affected each
other so they changed each other in
certain ways let's take a look at the
reading comprehension questions how well
do you remember the reading number one
Native Americans helped Europeans to do
what what did Europeans need to do or
what were the Europeans doing when they
came to America were they a settling or
they'd be dancing or were they see
dressing so Native Americans helped
Europeans to dress to dance or to settle
well of course you remember from the
reading the answer is to settle
Europeans came over to North America to
settle the land to move from one place
to another not to dance not to dress
they already knew how to just they
already had their own way of dancing
they didn't need help in those areas
they needed help in living in a new area
they needed help to settle number two
Native Americans made many things using
what what did they use what did Native
Americans use to make many things did
they use their dance to make many things
doesn't sound right it sounds kind of
odd
Native Americans made many things using
native Europeans
Native Americans used native Europeans
to make things that's really strange how
do you use people did they did they make
them into slaves and make them make
things in the factory
no that's kind of silly no they didn't
do that
Native Americans made many things using
their hands uh-huh that's correct right
they used many they made many things
using their hands if you use your hands
to make something you are engaged in a
craft they made many crafts works using
their hands using a special skill and
using their hands they made many things
like baskets
pottery pots canoes bows totem poles
many types of things okay let's look at
number three
Native Americans would hunt and fish a B
or C we have a longer sentence we have
to complete the sentence
so Native Americans would hunt and fish
using a bow canoe net and arrow does
that sound correct
yeah because bow and arrow is used for
hunting right - to kill the animal a
canoe is used so that they could go out
on a lake or a river and they could fish
they could throw a net in the water and
catch fish so yeah Native Americans
would hunt and fish using a bow canoe
net and arrow a is the correct answer
let's just look at B and C for practice
be using a basket pottery and crops hunt
and fish using crops you know 100 fish
using corn you throw the corn at the
deer right that's crazy you don't do
that okay so they didn't use baskets
pottery and crops to hunt and fish see
so that they could feed the Europeans
Native Americans would hunt and fish so
they could feed the Europeans is that
true no they hunted and fished so they
could feed themselves especially long
before the Europeans ever came to
America they didn't know the Europeans
were coming so they hunted and fished so
they could eat themselves
not so that they could feed the
Europeans that's kind of funny for
Native Americans made Kraftwerk
such as a basket witch witch witch so
one of these sentence endings will talk
about
a basket what special detail about the
basket
Native Americans made craft work such as
a basket a which they used for hunting
animals with so they used the basket for
hunting animals with now we just saw
that that's kind of silly they don't use
a basket to hunt animals so that's not
correct B they used a basket which they
learn to make from the Europeans so in
the reading passage did it say that the
Europeans taught the Americans Native
Americans how to make baskets that
doesn't make sense right so baskets
which they learn to make from the
Europeans right the Europeans didn't
teach the Native Americans how to make
baskets that's incorrect how about see
baskets which they use to store crops
such as corn to store crops to keep
something somewhere for future use is
that true yeah that's what they used the
baskets for they use the baskets they
made baskets which they use to store
crops such as corn they put corn and
other crops into the baskets and that's
how they save them they stored them for
future use okay let's take a look at our
chart again our chart is about Native
American culture different things that
Native Americans did in terms to in
their certain way of life in their way
of life let's take a look first of all
we have a picture up here of an American
Indian and it looks like he's chasing
and he wants to kill that Buffalo for
the meat and the skin of the Buffalo
somebody who chases an animal to kill
and to use their meat we call that
hunting so this person is hunting the
Buffalo Native Americans part of their
culture was hunting what kinds of animal
buffalo deer and other types of animals
these Native Americans are doing what
they're trying to catch fish right
remember fish is a noun it's also a verb
they are fishing Native American culture
was very involved in fishing too not
just in the way that they tried to
catch the fish but also the things that
they made in order to catch the fish it
looks like here they're using strings
right to catch the fish but they also
use nets that was easier to catch a fish
using a net down here we have the
different styles very colorful types of
covering that people would wear over
their bodies right different types of
clothing that Indians would make that's
part of their culture too because it was
unique a special type of clothing that
Native Americans would wear down here on
the bottom we can see that the Native
Americans were growing crops especially
corn so part of Native American culture
some groups would do what they would
engage in farming and they had farming
culture over here again there are many
different types of Native Americans many
different groups some groups especially
the groups in the middle of America who
would move a lot they made a certain
type of shelter and of course we call
that housing and this is this type of
shelter is teepee but like I said
there's different groups remember the
group I told you about the northwestern
Native Americans they built houses they
build houses that they stayed in they
didn't move around and they are not
teepees okay in the southwest many
Native Americans would build pueblos
they would make they would take mud and
shape it into walls and roofs and they
made some of the pueblos are very big
they're almost like apartment buildings
but these are a certain type of housing
- these are teepees for the middle of
America where the Native Americans would
move a lot so there's many different
types of housing here there's also many
different types of things that Native
Americans made by hand remember we
talked about that we set a basket here
and I told you that when I go back to
America to Arizona I can see many
examples of jewelry especially silver
and certain types of minerals that
Native Americans will make from these
types of things and we call those of
course craft work craft work okay so in
this unit the four
Americans we talked about Native
Americans they are of course the first
Americans we talked about their culture
we talked about how they hunted how they
fished Oh what kind of clothing they had
some of the things how did they get food
right not just by hunting and fishing
but also by farming and we saw that they
lived in different types of housing and
also that they made many unique and
beautiful things that we call craft work
so this unit was all about Native
Americans very interesting groups of
people of course many Native Americans
are still living today if you ever get a
chance to go to America why not take a
side trip and go look at some Native
Americans who are living now sometimes
they have festivals of course you can
also look at their craft work in stores
museums and even maybe sometimes just by
the roadside you can stop by and check
it out buy some if you're interested
anyway we'll see you guys next time hope
you learned a lot in this unit take care
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02