ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading SOCIAL STUDIES 02](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFfAONFqtGfnAdNJsLMZNeB)

Part 3 Everything Changes
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 02 | Lesson 07
[Changes in Transportation](https://youtu.be/GAh8mOv1c2Yâ€‹)

Transportation in the past was different from the transportation in the present. 
In the past, people used a horse, wagon, and steamboat to move around. 
People in the past would also ride bicycles. 
The invention of the engine changed transportation. 
The engine was a new technology. 
Technology has made transportation faster and safer. 
Airplanes and cars are machines with an engine. 
The bicycle is a machine with no engine but people still use it today. 
It is good for moving short distances, but cars and airplanes are better to travel long distances. 


Transcript
[Music]
hey kids welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart we
are now on lesson seven we're talking
about changes in transportation in this
unit you will discover technology has
made transportation faster and safer so
if you imagine technology for
transportation a long time ago and
transportation nowadays of course it's a
lot faster and it's also safer let's
look at some words to talk about this
topic the first word is transportation
what is transportation that's the
subject of the lesson but what is it
transportation it's a long word trans
por teh shun transportation it's a long
word transportation are or is ways to
carry people or things from one place to
another so you're going to transport by
the way transport is your verb if you
want to transport if you want to carry
something or somebody from this place to
that place you're going to transport
that person or that thing and we're
talking about transportation or all the
ways right we have trains we have truck
we have boat we have airplane these are
all types of transportation so we can
say whoops we can say types of
transportation
types of transport a shun types of
Transportation there are many types many
ways to carry people or things from one
place to another okay
we also talked about technology we saw
that idea technology technology has
changed transportation technology
technology of course you might know the
word Tech right
hi-tec right many things today are
high-tech they use high technology
technology is scientific knowledge
technology is based on science science
helps us learn about new ways to do
things and if we study new ways to do
things we're studying technology because
technology is scientific knowledge and
tools that make our life better it makes
our life better because it makes us be
able to do things easily and quicker and
faster technology is improving the way
that we live
technology is using scientific knowledge
and scientific tools machines and other
types of things to make the way we do
things faster easier better and that's
technology ok an engine is very
important when we talk about modern
technology almost all types of modern
technology use an engine what is an
engine an engine is the part of a
machine that produces energy the engine
produces energy or makes energy and that
energy is needed for the machine to work
if you have a big machine you want that
machine to work how can you get it to
move how can you get it to perform that
work you need an engine that engine
makes the energy that the machine needs
in order to move or to work or to do its
job a bicycle ok you probably have a
bicycle a bicycle is a vehicle that
usually has two wheels two wheels pedals
and handles it has two wheels if you
look at the wheel the wheel goes around
in a circle that's a cycle right by
means two so bicycle
bicycle a bicycle is a bicycle or a
machine that you ride on it has two
wheels have you ever seen somebody
riding around on one wheel sometimes you
can see that they have a thing here and
then they have a seat right and then the
person sits here on the seat what would
that be it's not a bicycle because by
means to what means one you need a
unicycle and there are unicycles but
they're a little dangerous right there
they're no more enduro to ride because
you owe your balance right bicycle is
much easier but a unicycle is one wheel
uni means one by means to cycle two
cycles bicycle so it has wheels pedals
and handles you guys know a bicycle you
probably ride a bicycle a lot but those
are bicycles we also have airplane it's
a plane flying in the air right airplane
right actually the the wings are like
planes and they go through the air the
flying vehicle a vehicle that flies it
has an engine and it has wings so an
airplane has an engine and it has wings
you can see the engine on this airplane
sometimes the engines are under the wet
though wings but in this case the engine
is right here all right that's just one
engine and that is a jet the engine is
here it has wings and look at the wings
they go down to make it go down and they
go up to make the airplane go up so
these parts of the wings move up or down
to make the airplane go up or down okay
so that's an airplane ride have you ever
ridden a horse I don't know maybe maybe
not but you probably ride a bicycle ride
is a very common thing we do we ride in
a car we ride in a train we ride in a
boat ride means to sit on something and
travel it's much more easier than
walking right walking you're not riding
high you're walking right but if you can
ride you
can sit down take it easy relax and you
can travel to another place so ride
wagon a wagon is very old isn't it it's
old style transportation a vehicle that
has four wheels one two three four in
the back and is pulled by horses so
horses maybe one horse two horses some
wagons had eight horses all hooked
together and they are pulling the wagon
they went pretty fast because many
horses can run for a long time but
wagons were very difficult to ride in it
wasn't comfortable to ride in a wagon
let's take a look at a video now this is
an old video right from a long time ago
they're showing people moving waves look
at this guy right here look at his head
whoa
did you see that his head went around
like that okay it's pretty funny but you
can see these wagons they were not
comfortable because they were always
going like this and that's why that had
guys heads you know going around like
this imagine doing that for eight hours
a day you would go crazy right it was
very difficult to travel in these wagons
but Americans when they went from the
East Coast and they wanted to go to the
west coast a long time ago they would
travel in these wagons and these were
dragons were called covered covered
wagons and they were really really long
you had so many covered wagons covered
wagon because you covered the wagon with
a cloth or fabric and you had a a lot of
wagons just one after another and if you
look there's just stretched out really
far there's so many wagons hundreds of
families are moving at one time these
wagons moved at the same time for safety
because it's very difficult journey if
something breaks down other people can
help you sometimes they went through
hostile territory the Native Americans
were not happy with all these Europeans
or Americans coming across their land so
they would attack the covered wagon
trains they were so long they called
them trains they weren't trains but they
were so long it seemed
like they were trains and this is how
American pioneers moved across the
country a long time ago and but imagine
it's very difficult and always you know
rocking around it's very normal normal
him to know okay okay another way to get
around is a steamboat that's a boat of
course that uses steam for its power a
boat that gets power from steam so you
would the boat engineers they would burn
coal would usually coal and it would
cause steam which which made an engine
move and they've made the paddle move
which made the boat move through the
water and you could see steam coming up
from the stacks the smokestacks there
okay so that's a steam boat let's take a
look at transportation changes actually
we're gonna take a look at a video of a
steam boat here soon
but we can see these different dates at
the top these are the dates these are
the types of transportation used during
those dates and that has the name of
what they were on the bottom so let's
take a look in 1787 1787 that's a long
time ago right very long time ago they
used steam boats and this is another
example of steam boat here you can see
the smoke coming off coming off the out
of this steam stacks the the chimneys
and this is a steam boat let's take a
look at a picture this is a picture of a
steam boat moving along you can see you
know when they're burning the coal the
exhaust is coming out there the smoke
from that is coming it's moving pretty
fast right so steam boats are still used
today right this is a steam boat that is
being used in modern times but they were
used almost 300 years ago okay in 1814
in 1814 the steam-powered train became
into use now you we can use steam to
make a boat work but that we can also
use steam to make a train work and the
steam powered train the iron horse that
called it the iron horse because it was
made of iron it wasn't a horse but they
called it the iron horse
but it ran on tracks and the steam
engine will see a picture of it the
steam engine here is really what helps
open up the western United States
because now instead of riding in those
wagons that took forever and it was very
difficult if the wheels broke or or they
moved very slowly now people can move on
trains now this train actually is moving
kind of slowly steam-powered trains
usually moved a little bit faster than
this one but you can see that all this
smoke is coming up out of the front part
of the engine in the back over here
there's a big oven and the person who's
the engineer the train engineer he's
using a shovel and he's putting coal
into the furnace and the furnace is
what's making the engine now that's
going a little bit faster right it's
picking up speed and it's - it's going
down the tracks as you can see steam
powered trains are still used today
because this is a modern scene it's as a
modern Road we saw a car back there was
waiting for the Train very dangerous by
the way if you come to a train crossing
be careful look to see if a train's
coming before you cross the road or
before you cross the train tracks okay
so that's an example of a steam train
and that helped like I said it helped
people move in greater numbers and
faster and easier and more comfortably
across the western United States
then in 1885 1885 the car was invented
and it was used but the car wasn't
really used very often it was very rare
in 1885 wasn't it and you see this is a
very interesting looking car it's not
inside it's outside and they had these
big levers that they had to move back
and forth and to get it started you had
to come out in front and you had to turn
this wheel to get the engine to start
oh no boy him there all right so this
was the way the car was in 1885 and of
course in 1905 Henry Ford started to
make cars very quickly and cheaply in a
factory and then
that started the whole automobile
industry and so cars were becoming a
little bit easier to make and easier to
buy here in 1903 what happened in 1903
the first airplane was flown where it
was flown in in the States at Kitty Hawk
by the Wright brothers you probably
heard of them
the Wright brothers they they were
actually bicycle makers they made
bicycles but they had an idea many
people were interested in making a
machine that could fly there were
inventors in France their inventors in
Germany and Britain and in the States
who are all racing and competing against
each other to make the first airplane
the first vehicle that act could
actually fly in the air and the Wright
brothers finally succeeded in making the
airplane this of course is not their
airplane this is a later model okay this
is this airplane is an old-fashioned
airplane it has two wings so we call it
a biplane I'll write it down here a
biplane remember by means two so a
biplane is a plane with two wings and
you see it takes off it goes very fast
my planes are used still these days
quite a bit for putting chemicals on
crops farmers will use them to put
chemicals on their crops to keep insects
away from the food so the farmer doesn't
want insects to come and eat all their
corn they'll hire a pilot who flies a
biplane and it will dump chemicals on
their crops to protect their plants from
insects and that's a very common sight
you can see in American in America in
the Midwest in the western part of
America and in the middle part of
America sometimes you can see planes
flying over farms and there they're
dumping chemicals on the plants okay
let's take a look at our words and the
definition will match the word to the
definition our words are we have six
words airplane technology
technology engine engine bicycle bicycle
big word transportation transportation
and ride ride okay number one to sit on
something and travel very nice very easy
very comfortable right not walking to
sit on something and travel means to do
what it means to ride to ride it ride a
bicycle ride a horse ride on the subway
okay number two a flying vehicle that
has an engine and wings it's a vehicle
that flies it flies in the air it has an
engine and it has wings it has an engine
so it moves by its own power and of
course it has wings to make it fly we
know what that is right that of course
is an airplane again number three is a
little difficult scientific knowledge
scientific know-how things that people
know based on science and tools not only
knowledge but also tools things people
use to do work scientific knowledge and
tools that make our life better it's
very important that we have this our
modern life is very convenient and easy
because we have a lot of this and when
we talk about the latest one we say high
high tech high technology technology is
scientific knowledge and tools that make
our life better okay number four a
vehicle that usually has two wheels
pedals and handles two wheels two pedals
and a handlebar you have two handles
remember it's got two wheels a wheel is
like a cycle it has two of them so it's
by its bicycle bicycle I want to ride my
bicycle right you know that song okay
but of course you have a bicycle and you
like to ride your bicycle
number five ways to carry people or
things from one place to a
another place so away a means a some
method to carry people or things from
one place to another place from a city
to a town from the mountains to the
beach whatever you want to do so ways to
carry when we're talking about ways
means methods what are we talking about
we're talking about transportation it's
a really long word here trans portation
okay number six the part of a machine
that produces energy that produces
energy makes energy needed for the
machine to work that energy is needed so
that the machine will work what part of
the machine is that that of course is
called the engine it's the engine okay
here we have our chart here the first
man on the moon
wow that's a really impressive picture
look that's very beautiful here's a
person on the moon and in the background
that is the earth let's take a look at
this we started going into space in 1961
look at this newspaper here it's very
interesting right you see the the
letters cccp one CCCP one what does that
stand for and look at this this
newspaper what language is this is that
English it looks like English letters
but it's not English it is Russian
because the Russians were the first ones
who started going into space they
started sending satellites into space
small objects into space and they were
the first to have rockets that went into
outer space so America was very worried
and there was a big space race between
America and Russia space race and the
race was to put the first nation to be
able to put a person on the moon that
was the space race in 1969 Neil
Armstrong became the first person to
walk on the moon and that was that's
what happened in 1969 think of
that that's more than 40 years ago a man
walked on the moon and we haven't been
back since
what happened right maybe it's time we
start trying to go back send people into
space and to run into them to the moon
or maybe even to Mars that would be an
amazing achievement of course we send
people into space now but just into a
space station that goes around the earth
we haven't been back to the moon in 40
years okay let's take a look at these
pictures here look at the pictures and
write the word that best describes these
pictures so in the pictures we see a boy
scientist he must be very smart right
he's in a laboratory and he's mixing
chemicals together he's using his
knowledge to do something here we see a
picture of the space shuttle by the way
the Space Shuttle is not used anymore it
has been stopped the program has been
stopped mainly because of a lack of
money so but this what is this this is a
big machine it's like a tool that people
will use to travel into outer space so
it's a tool and it's very complex very
complicated tool wow this girl looks
very serious and very smart right she's
looking at the computer she's probably
using the Internet
she's using another tool all these
knowledge and tools that help make our
life better what do we call that we call
that technology okay let's take a look
at our true/false questions number one
ride means to sit on something and
travel so you sit down on something and
you travel that's to ride right that's
right that's exactly what it is that's
number two transportation is the part of
a machine the part of a machine that
makes the machine work it makes the
machine work that's transportation right
transportation makes a machine work no
that doesn't sound right that's false
what is the part of a machine that makes
that machine work what word did we learn
that means that if you guessed engine
you would be correct engine
and I should probably put an engine and
engine and engine and there should be a
small e an engine is the part of a
machine that makes the machine work
that's correct but we have to change the
sentence so it's false
number three Neil Armstrong was the
first person to go into space is that
true or not true now maybe I didn't
explain before I said Neil Armstrong was
the first person on the moon but the
Russians were actually the first person
to put a man into space a Russian
astronaut was the cosmonaut is what they
call the Russians was the first person
to go around the earth he went into
space and he went made in orbit around
the earth so Neil Armstrong wasn't the
first person to go into space that's
false he was the first person to walk on
the moon to walk on the moon so yeah be
careful there Armstrong was not the
first person in the space a Russian
cosmonaut I thought God type of
astronaut was the first person to go
into space and that's what also helped
start the space race ok well let's take
a break here we've finished the
vocabulary section let's take a break
and move on to the reading section next
don't go away ok welcome back we're
continuing on the idea of changes in
transportation so we're talking about
how did transportation change from the
past to now let's take a look at the
reading passage transportation in the
past was different from the
transportation in the present in the
past people used a horse wagon and
steamboat to move around people in the
past would also ride bicycles so this
part is just basically talking about in
the past how is transportation done in
the past and what were some examples of
transportation in the past
in the past of course before now like a
hundred years ago 200 years ago things
like that of course it was much
different from different from
transportation in the present now right
so in the past of course is much
different than in the present in the
past again we here in the past people
used a horse that's the first one wagon
and steamboat to move around so we see
three examples of how people in the past
got around they rode on a horse
they rode in wagons and they rode on
steam boats people in the past would
also here's another one a fourth way
would also ride bicycles so here we see
four means of transportation the people
used in the past bicycles horse wagon
steamboat what do we still use today
sometimes we still use steamboats we use
bicycles some people use horses and some
people use wagons but these were the
main ways of transportation in the past
these were the only ways of
transportation in the past the invention
of the engine changed transportation so
here we have a transitional statement
we're talking about in the past what
were the ways that people got around the
way that people the means of
transportation so then now we have the
invention of the engine the invention
means a new thing was made what was it
it was the engine and what did it do of
course it changed transportation
completely very much okay the engine was
a new technology the engine was a new
type of technology it was built using
scientific knowledge and tools
technology has made transportation
faster and safer so now see we have a
transition from the past to the present
we talked about the invention of the
engine that changed everything and
because of the engine transportation is
now faster and it's safer
- we have examples of modern-day
transportation airplanes and cars are
machines with an engine so two types of
machines with engines that are used for
transportation our airplanes and cars
this picture looks very strange doesn't
it that airplane seems to be too low
maybe there's an airport nearby okay but
anyway airplanes and cars are machines
with an engine the bicycle is a machine
people still use the bicycle these days
you use a bicycle probably every day or
almost every day the bicycle is a
machine with no engine but people still
use it today it is good for moving short
distances but cars and airplanes are
better to travel long distances and
that's true right you probably use your
bicycle today these days to get from
your home to your school or maybe from
your home to meet your friends near by
their house or maybe a park nearby if
you want to go just a short distance
it's a very good means of transportation
by the way it's very cheap - and it
doesn't use any gas and it's good for
the environment
so bicycles are very good means of
transportation for moving short
distances but if you want to go far away
you want to go from Busan to taejeon
right will you ride your bicycle unless
you have a lot of time write it but if
you don't have a lot of time you should
use a car or train if you want to go
from Korea to Australia you can't use a
train you're gonna want to use an
airplane because these are better to
travel long distances if you're going
very far you're either gonna drive a car
you're gonna ride in a train you take a
boat or you're gonna fly in an airplane
okay now we've come to our reading skill
our reading skill is main idea and
details so we're talking about the main
idea and what are the details that
support that main idea the main idea is
technology has made transportation
faster and safer
and we can see three details that
support that statement that main idea we
have three blanks the blanks are of the
words to fill in the blanks our engine
airplanes and steam boat let's look at
these in the past
so before now a long time ago people
used a horse a wagon and beep a third
thing what is that third thing that
people used in the past as
transportation did they use an engine in
the past well before the engine was
invented what did they use so engines
not right airplanes airplanes are not
used in the past they're a modern
invention
what about steamboat yes steamboats were
used in the past we saw hundreds of
years ago they used a steamboat to get
around as transportation now the
invention of the what changed
transportation there was an invention of
a thing that really changed all types of
transportation
what was that invention that invention
of course was called the engine the
engine train changed transportation from
horses to steamboats to cars and
airplanes now now we have beep and cars
are machines with an engine so what are
machines that use an engine one example
is cars what's another example of a
machine that uses an engine of course
it's a word that we have left
it's airplanes airplanes and cars are
machines with an engine ok let's move on
to the reading comprehension questions
number one what is used to pull a wagon
so if you have a wagon the wagons not
gonna move by itself it doesn't have an
engine
what do you need to pull the wagon a a
bicycle well that would be normal him
there all right oh you can't pull the
blagging with a bicycle especially those
big wagons we saw you'd have to have so
many people on bicycles and that's crazy
right so not bicycles horse
yeah sure horse and not an airplane you
don't use an airplane to pull a wagon
that's crazy that's really dangerous
right the wagon would be going flying
all over the place
everybody would fly out of the wagon
it'd be no very very dangerous right so
absolutely not an airplane don't use a
bicycle of course we use horses to pull
our wagon and we saw the picture of one
horse pulling the wagon but the pictures
before that we saw the video there
sometimes there's many horses pulling
the wagon two horses four horses six or
eight horses that's a lot of horses to
pull those wagons to a bicycle usually
has two wheels pedals and what else what
else is on a bicycle steam do we have
steam on a bicycle oh that's hot that's
dangerous be careful we don't put steam
on a bicycle that would be silly do we
use an engine on a bicycle as an engine
if a bicycle has an engine it's not a
bicycle what is it it's a motorcycle
whoops
I misspelled that motor sigh coal
because now it's a cycle with a motor
it's a motorcycle so if a bicycle has an
engine it's not a bicycle it's a
motorcycle or it's a scooter a scooter
is also a type of bicycle with an engine
what's the difference between a
motorcycle and a scooter well a
motorcycle right the guy sits like this
with his legs apart from very powerful
engine but a scooter is that right it
goes very slowly okay and it's not that
strong of an engine but both are
convenient means of transportation
okay so it's not this one a bicycle has
two wheels pedals and you hold on to it
handles right oops
we went too fast handles okay so it also
has handles okay sorry about that so a
bicycle has two wheels pedals and
handles okay now let's move on to number
three okay number three an airplane is a
vehicle with what what does a airplane
have two wheels and is pulled by an
engine an airplane is pulled by an
engine it's the engine is in front of
the airplane in the air and there's a
rope pulling it now
that sounds silly right okay an airplane
is a vehicle with two wings sounds good
and an engine and it flies in the air
does that sound right yeah it has two
wings it has an engine sometimes it has
many engines and of course it flies in
the air that's why it's an airplane
so yeah B is the correct answer what
about C an airplane is a vehicle with
two wings and an engine and it flies
into space right no airplanes do not fly
into space they can't everybody on board
the airplane would they would die
there's no oxygen if it flies if
something flies into space there are
things that have two wings and engine
and do fly into space the space shuttle
was such a thing oops the space sorry
about that
the space shuttle the space shuttle we
had to wings an engine and it did fly
into space that would be a space shuttle
also we could say space ship a space
ship is a ship that flies into space
okay but airplanes don't fly into space
so C is not correct what about number
four what has technology done for
transportation so basically this
question another way you can ask it is
how has technology changed
transportation what are the answers a it
has made moving around safer and faster
well that's exactly what we're talking
about in this unit changes of
transportation we keep seeing this idea
technology has made transportation
faster and safer so that is correct
let's look in B and C just for practice
it has given us airplanes to travel
short distances airplanes to travel
short distances no we talked about that
before
airplanes travel far distances not short
distances C it has given us bicycles
with engines oh yeah well technology has
done that but that's not the main thing
that tech
has done right that's just a small thing
technology the bigger idea is that it's
made transportation safer and faster not
so much this one okay so the best answer
for that question is a okay let's move
on to our chart we've seen this before
we've seen chant Transportation's
changes transportation changes we see
dates from a long time ago to more
recently still 1903 is still a long time
ago we see the pictures of these
different inventions are different
styles of transportation different modes
of transportation and then we need to
put in the word what they are let's take
a look at the first one in 1787 there
was a boat that used a steam that they
put into a furnace and that the the
steam and the heat made the boat move
through the water so what did they call
that of course it was using steam it's
of course very simply well a steamboat
steamboat okay next one now to take that
same idea they used the same idea with
the steam for the boat and they decided
hey let's see if we can use that on land
what can we do with this on land and
they made a train powered by steam and
that of course was called the
steam-powered train so now this was a
new invention it could pull many cars
behind it and of course you had to lay
tracks down in front of it before you
before you went on the train but that
was called a steam-powered train and
this invention really helped open up the
western United States 1885
people started to invent a car right
this of course it's just called the car
then look at how old this is is it
actually kind of cool-looking but it's
very old it didn't go very fast and it
was very difficult to operate and to
start with the with the crank you had to
get out in front of it and wind it up
with your arm to get enough power so the
engine would start ok 1903 what happened
in 1903 people invented
airplane the airplane was invented and
then people realized the dream of
finally being able to fly they said okay
now we can fly and that was a dream many
people had for a very very long time can
human beings fly well in 1903 they made
the first machine that allowed people to
fly and of course nowadays we don't
think much about it right it's very
interesting to look at changes in
transportation and we don't realize it
you probably don't realize that these
days because you never rode on a
steamboat or a steam-powered train the
car that you use is probably very modern
looks nothing like this one and the
airplane if you fly in an airplane it's
very easy you just go to the you could
buy a ticket you go to the airport you
get in you sit down and you get off
people don't think about these things
but it's really amazing how much
transportation has changed over the
years and it's very interesting to look
at and of course technology is always
improving it's very interesting to think
about how we'll translate
transportation how will Transportation
be different in the future 50 years from
now a hundred years from now how will
transportation be different then what
new interesting amazing inventions will
be made to help people move from one
place to another that's something
interesting to think about well anyway I
hope you learned a lot in this lesson as
always and we'll see you next time take
care everybody
Amercian Text Book Reading | Social Studies 02