ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 1 Home, School, and Neighborhood
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 2
[Time for Schoolâ€‹](https://youtu.be/ID9T4EQ-9Io)
== Time for School ==
At school, there are some important rules to remember. In the classroom during class, we must be quiet and listen to the teacher. We must also be quiet and not disturb other people in the library. In the hallway we should walk carefully. The cafeteria also has rules we must follow when we eat our lunch. We have a responsibility to follow rules because rules help us be fair. The rules also help us be safe. The principal of the school,teachers, and students should all follow the rules to make a happier and safer school.


Transcript
[Music]
hey kids how are you doing welcome back
to American textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart you ready to go to
school because that's where we're going
in this lesson we're on lesson two time
for school so in this lesson you will
discover rules to follow at school we're
gonna talk about rules what are rules
well that's one of the vocabulary words
that we're going to discuss so of course
rules are very important wherever you
are in school let's get started and talk
about the vocabulary the first word
we're going to talk about is class so if
we talk about class what are we talking
about we're talking about a period of
time it's a period of time to teach a
group of students so when we say class
we can say when when is your class so
that's what we're talking about with
this one when is your class my class is
at ten o'clock or it's from ten to
eleven so my class is from 10 to 11 when
is your class it's a period of time in
that period of time you were supposed to
do certain things listen to the teacher
raise your hand that's what we're gonna
talk about in this lesson those kinds of
rules well first of all where are you
when you are in class when you are in
class where are you you can say I'm in
school right but school is a big
building in that building there are many
smaller rooms you are in the classroom
classroom it's a very easy word because
it's the room where you have class all
right it's two words class room it's a
room what kind of room a classroom a
place in school used to teach a group of
students a group of students okay
by the way when we talk about class
we've just learned class is the time
that you study with a teacher but we can
also there's another definition for
class and we could say it's a group of
students so that can also be used as
class how big is your class how big
whoops that's a B how big is your class
in that way class is a group of students
so there's two definitions per class one
when the period of time to the group the
group of students so when is your class
that's the period of time how big is
your class that's a group of students
now when you have a class you're in a
classroom when you are together with
your class you are in a classroom that's
the place where the class meets that's
the place where the class is held okay
let's move on now a principal a
principal who is a principal at your
school the principal is the head teacher
of course there are many teachers in a
school in your classroom you have one
teacher but the head teacher means like
the chief right the top boss or the boss
of all the teachers the person who is in
charge of a school and that's an
interesting thing she is or he is in
charge of that means that the principal
is in charge of a school they are the
person who is like the final the top
boss at the school the person who is
responsible for the entire school that's
the person who makes all the rules make
sure everybody's doing their job and
make sure that all the students are
behaving properly you don't want to go
to the principal's office if you go to
the principal's office that means you're
in trouble so stay away from the
principal's office okay be a good stew
okay hopefully you will not have to go
to the principal's office of course the
principal is a nice person right
but unfortunately part of their job is
to talk to the bad students right and
make sure that they don't do the bad
thing again that's part of their job
so usually you meet your teacher every
day but you don't want to meet the
principal every day okay you want to you
want to stay out of the principal's
office let's move on okay now we're
talking about rule on the first slide
when we first introduced this lesson we
were talking about rules to follow in
school what is a rule our rule is
instruction instruction instruction
means that something that up an adult or
somebody who is empowered they tell you
what to do that's an instruction about
what people must do must do or must not
do so there are things that you should
do in a in a school or wherever you are
at home there are things that you should
not do things that we should do things
that we should not do must do or must
not do same thing what are those things
if we look very carefully we can see
some rules one listen listen when
someone else is speaking so if you're in
your class and another student is
speaking you should listen wait till
they're finished then you can talk but
you should listen first that's a rule
work quietly at your desk don't run
around to making noise all right work at
your desk quietly don't disturb the
other students that's another rule
don't disturb whoops we're duty go don't
disturb the other students other whoops
the other students okay ignore that
dignity okay
don't disturb the other students okay
that's another rule that's something you
don't do okay raise your hand when you
need help that's a very
common rule so these are things that we
do these are things that we don't do
they are rules now when we talk about
rules these are types of
responsibilities we are responsible for
following the rules we are responsible
to follow the rules that is our
responsibility follow the rules and
responsibility is something that people
should do something that we should do as
students is follow the rules at school
so that is our responsibility it's
something we should do this teddy bear
okay something this teddy bear should do
is wear a seatbelt right now that's
crazy right it's just an example but if
you are riding in a car it's your
responsibility to wear your seatbelt
it's your parents responsibility to make
sure you're wearing a seatbelt it's what
people should do what should you do
those are your responsibilities one
responsibility is to follow the rules
why do we follow rules why should we
follow rules because it makes life
difficult no not just we share rules
might make life difficult but there's a
more important reason there's a very
important reason we follow rules and
that is to make life fair when we talk
about fair we mean in a way that is
right and honest in other words we want
to be right means correct we want to
behave in the right way we want to
behave in the honest way why because
that's fair for everybody one person
shouldn't have an advantage over another
we shouldn't take advantage of other
people take advantage of if you take
advantage of another person it's because
you aren't lying to them so you take
advantage of their belief in you you
break their trust in you if you take
advantage of somebody you might steal
something for
somebody else this is taking advantage
of people other people
we shouldn't do that because that causes
problems that causes fights other people
their feelings are hurt if everything is
fair everybody is treated the same way
then everything is fair and everybody is
happy so if you act in a way that is
right and you are honest everybody will
be happy you will be proud of yourself
other people will like you because
you're correct and you are honest so
everybody is happy and this of course
you should be fair oh and of course when
we talk about fair we also talk about
balanced okay now follow I talked about
that before follow means to obey
so before I taught you guys follow the
rules remember follow the rules because
it's your responsibility right so we
follow the rules because it's our
responsibility follow means to obey obey
is also very similar to this situation
this boy is teaching the dog his dog the
rules you know sit sit right stay and
the dog is obeying the dog is following
what the boy is saying of course we're
not dogs but we should also follow the
rules because that's fair for everybody
else and it's our responsibility to
follow the rules okay so follow your
teacher follow your principal follow
your parents okay they will teach you
the rules and then when you get older
your children will follow you okay let's
take a look at our chart here here we
have a diagram showing the rules to
follow at school so we follow rules we
can take a look at the picture what does
the picture doing and we can understand
what's going on here
so the teacher here is saying sraight
she's gonna teach the class some things
so we follow directions we follow
directions if the teacher says be quiet
right she's saying Shh
Shh be quiet she is telling the class to
do something she is giving directions so
we follow those directions okay so we
follow the teachers directions here what
are these two kids doing right they seem
to be painting something and they're
sharing the paint's they only have one
thing of paint and they're sharing it
they're helping each other so they're
helping others another rule to follow is
to help your other students if there's
only one thing and you have to share
between many people that's okay help
each other right you can help each other
maybe you could help prepare things for
your class together you can help your
friends and classmates okay next one
another rule to follow raise your hand
to talk don't just talk in the class if
you're in the classroom don't just start
talking raise your hand then the teacher
can say okay go ahead and then of course
is raise your hand I have a question
raise your hand to talk these girls are
following the rules they are raising
their hands because they want to talk
they don't talk right away they raise
their hand first finally very important
rule because you want to be safe be safe
do not run in the hallway don't run in
the hallway because that's not safe in
fact many rules are done because we want
to be safe we want to be safe and we
want to be fair there's two main reasons
why we follow rules at school one reason
is that we are safe we don't run in the
hallway because if we run we're gonna
hit other people that's gonna be
dangerous we don't want to do that we
want to be safe
another reason to follow rules is so
that we're fair we're fair to other
students we don't talk when they're
talking that's not fair we should wait
our turn everybody waits our turn that's
fair so two main reasons why we follow
rules at school one is to be fair and
two I'm sorry to be safe one is to be
safe two is to be fair so if we follow
we are safe and we are fair okay right
now we're on the part where we match the
word to the definition so these are our
words up here and we need to match them
to the definitions down below our words
our class classroom principle principle
rule responsibility responsibility
that's a long word isn't it
responsibility okay fair fair so those
are our words let's match them to the
definition number one in a way that is
right and honest so we talked about this
behave in a way that is correct
or right and be honest to each other so
when we do those things what are we
being you should be what you should be
fair okay so you should be fair if you
are act in a way that is fair
you are being correct you are being
right and you are being honest to act in
that way you are being fair so be fair
right be fair to everyone around you
number two something that people should
do we talked about this a little bit
right we said that you know one of the
things you should do is wear your
seatbelt another thing that you should
do is follow the rules these are things
we should do they are what it's a very
long word do you remember it is
responsibility so it is our
responsibility to follow the rules
it is our responsibility to wear a
seatbelt it is something that people
should do it's their responsibility it's
your responsibility it's her
responsibility
okay whose responsibility isn't what
should they do number three the head
teacher remember the head not just
teacher but the head teacher like the
boss right the top boss the person who
is in charge of a school in charge of
somebody who is in charge of responsible
for the school they are
a person who sets the rules remember you
don't want to go to this person's office
right who is that person that is the
principal the principal okay let's move
on to number four number four is a
period of time remember I gave you two
definitions I gave you two definitions
for this word one of them was a period
of time the other one was a group of
students who studied together right but
this time we're talking about a period
of time to teach a group of students so
we have our other one there too right a
group of students what is it it is of
course a class a class is a period of
time that you study together it is also
a group of students who studied together
in the same room they are the class okay
now that leads us to number five right
because now we're talking about a place
a place in school used to teach a group
of students so where does your class
meet right when it's time for class
where do you go you go of course to the
classroom that's where the other group
of students meet that's where your class
meets and that is where you go when it's
time for class okay so that would be a
classroom number six an instruction
about what people must do or must not do
so remember there are things you do you
must do there are things you must not do
okay and it's an instruction it's like
one instruction okay so one instruction
we use singular but for many
instructions of course there's always
many instructions aren't there there's
not just one there's always many and we
use it in the plural sense very often of
course what do we call that we call that
of course a rule but usually there's not
just one rule there are many rules right
some rules tell you what you must do
some rules tell you what you must not do
so a rule that tells you what you must
do raise your hand before speaking you
must do this a rule that tells you what
you must not do don't run in the hallway
okay
that's a rule you must not do so rules
tell you what you must do or what you
must not do okay let's move on here we
have a chart here now when we talk about
school because our lesson is is about
time for school before I said you know
there are many rooms in a school a
school is a big building there are many
different places in the school we looked
at one of those places that's a
classroom right but what are some other
places right we have a classroom was
over here we talked about that but what
other rooms can we find in our school
where do you go if you want to read a
book if you want to find a book and you
want a quiet place to read that book you
would go to the library right and that's
a should be a quiet place there are
rules in the library be quiet right
don't run okay so this is a library
where now during school of course you go
to school for the whole day you have
many classes in the day you get hungry
right at noon you have to go somewhere
to eat lunch where do you go you go to
the cafeteria everybody cafeteria
cafeteria the cafeteria some places you
can buy food most cafeterias you can buy
food or you can bring your food from
home but where do you eat it you eat it
at a cafeteria with your friends right
you guys sit at a table you eat the food
in the cafeteria where do you go to eat
lunch I go to the cafeteria now of
course you know after you eat you might
get you know busy or sometimes in the
morning too before lunch there's a
certain time of in the school day where
the kids go outside and play now you
want to have a good place to play right
you want to have like swings slides you
want to have fun things to play around
on what do you call that area that is
called a play ground because it's a
ground ground means area where you play
right and there's many fun things to do
on the playground you have slides you
have swings you have bars that you can
swing off of there's many types
things that you can do at the playground
of course be nice to everybody on the
playground it's your responsibility to
play safe and to play fair right okay
finally in the school room or in the
school building you have many classrooms
but you have to go from one classroom to
another classroom where do you go to do
that you go in the hallway the hallway
is the space between classrooms it's a
wide space so many students can walk
back and forth and in many schools also
in the hallway you can find a place to
put your bags in your books and we call
this place a locker so in many schools
the locker your locker or the lockers
for all the students are located in the
hallway okay so that's why hallways are
usually very wide at schools let's move
on let's take a look at these pictures
and write the word that best fits in the
blank
okay so we're talking about the place
here what are these places and what are
the rules right
so first of all we have a place here we
have a picture of a boy he's reading a
book right
the rule is do not disturb other people
right and then over here we have a
picture of the place this is a classroom
and this is be quiet and listen to the
teacher so if these are places right
what are these I already said it
actually these are the rules right so do
not disturb other people this is a
negative rule what you must not do do
not disturb other people this boy he's
not disturbing anybody he's obeying or
following the rules he's quietly reading
a book by himself he's following the
rules over here the teacher is
explaining something about the world
even though she has math on the
blackboard okay but in the classroom the
students are being quiet and listening
to the teacher be quiet
listen to the teacher that is something
you should do maybe she's talking about
where math came from right maybe she's
talking about
ancient Babylonia okay but anyway so
she's being quiet and listen to the
teacher and that is a rule that you
should follow in the classroom okay now
we've come to our true and false
questions remember if the sentence is
false we Circle F if it's true we Circle
T let's take a look at the sentences
here a classroom is a period of time to
teach a group of students does that
sound right we have class room and we
have a period of time so is a room a
period of time that doesn't sound right
does it our room is a place our room is
a place not a period of time so a
classroom is a place where you teach a
group of students are used to teach a
group of students right so this is wrong
we have to change the sentence to make
it right so of course it would be false
number two number two a responsibility
remember we talked about responsibility
what is your responsibility there are
different types of responsibilities our
responsibility is something that people
should do so for example our
responsibility could be wear your seat
belt that's something you should do
follow the rules at school that's
something you should do so these are
responsibilities right so this sentence
is true our responsibility is something
that people should do absolutely number
three we talked about a principle before
I was joking I said you don't want to go
to the principal's office you and that's
kind of true you don't really want to go
to the principal's office usually when
students go to the principal's office
they are in trouble a principal is an
instruction about what people must do or
must not do does that sound right a
principal remember is a person a
principal is eight whoops is a person
sorry about that P just join these two
together okay person a principal is a
person not
instruction that's not that doesn't make
sense so this sentence is not true it
doesn't make sense a person is not an
instruction a person is a person okay if
we changed principle to rule then this
sentence would be correct a rule is an
instruction about what people must do or
must not do that's true but we have to
change the sentence to make it true so
the sentence is false okay that wraps up
the vocabulary section
well let's now take a short break we'll
come back and we'll take a look at the
reading ok kids welcome back let's go
over the reading part together now of
course our subject is time for school so
we're talking about things at school or
things to do at school and we can see at
school so when we're at school right
when we are at school there are some
important rules to remember to remember
we have to remember the rules don't
forget the rules right in the classroom
during class this is an interesting
sentence we're using two of our words
here our vocabulary words in the
classroom the place where you study
during class the period of time that you
study we must be quiet so we must be
quiet that's one of the rules that we
should remember we must be quiet that's
one rule another rule listen to the
teacher that's another rule we should do
these things so there are some important
rules to remember one we must be quiet
too we must listen to the teacher also
we must also be quiet and not disturb
other people we're in the library okay
so at school there are many different
places at school we have the classroom
that's one place we have another place
in the library and there are rules for
these different places in the classroom
one rule we must be quiet too we must
listen to the teacher in the library we
must be quiet also and we must not
disturb other people so not remember
rule
our positive and negative things we must
do and things we must not do okay so
it's either we must do it or we must not
do it those are our rules okay let's
move on here there are other places of
course in the school that we talked
about another place is hallway so we
talked about classroom we talked about
library we can also talk about hallway
in the hallway what's another rule we
should walk carefully walk carefully
don't run but be careful about where
you're walking don't we gonna walk into
other people bump into other people
right don't do that walk carefully be
careful in the hallway watch where
you're going
that's a good expression by the way
watch where you are going so of course
parents and teachers might say this if
you're using your cell phone then
walking don't do that that's not
carefully watch where you are going look
be careful be nice to other people
consider other people if you're doing
this and you pump into other people
that's not being very fair because
you're using your time you think your
time is more important than the other
person that's not being fair watch where
you're going walk carefully okay another
place at school we talked about
classroom we talked about library we
talked about hall way also cafeteria the
cafeteria is where we eat our lunch
right that's where we eat our lunch
it also has rules we must follow when we
are in the cafeteria we have a
responsibility to follow rules in all of
these places because rules help us be
fair like I said one example you know
when you're in the hallway walk
carefully because if you bump into other
people you're not being fair you saying
I'm more important what I'm doing is
more important than your safety that's
not fair
we should always be fair and follow the
rules because rules help us be fair and
remember they also help us be safe so
there are two main rules for others too
many reasons why
we follow rules we of course we want to
be fair that's very important we also
want to be safe okay so these are
important rules and there are many
places that we should follow the rules
at school these rules of course help us
be safe that's what I just said on the
other slide right so the Alfa's be fair
they help us be safe the principal of
the school
okay the principal the teachers and the
students should all follow rules so even
though the principal is like the head
teacher they're the boss they still have
to follow the rules to everybody Falls
the rules because you want to be safe
and you want to be fair should follow
the rules to make a happier and safer
school if we follow the rules and we're
fair to everybody everybody's happy if
we're safe then people are safe of
course we want the school to be a good
environment for us to study in right we
want everybody to be happy at our school
we want everybody to be safe at school
we want everybody to feel that
everybody's being treated fairly so if
we follow the rules these things will
happen and we'll have a happy and safe
school and that's very good that's what
we want isn't it okay so we've come to
our reading chart here our reading skill
is based on cause and effect remember
cause is the action or the condition
that happens the action and then of
course the effect is the result of that
action our main idea of course though
for the reading passage though is that
we have rules to follow so we have rules
to follow in many different places in
the classroom and the library and the
cafeteria in the hallway many different
places and we have causes the actions
that we do and then we have the effect
the effects are all the same well we
have different causes let's take a look
at the causes and we need to fill in the
blanks of course in each one we have
four blanks and four words happier quiet
hallway and library let's take a look
one cause we must be beep during class
what is beep we must be what happier
during class we have to be happier even
happier than we already are
that's crazy right okay we have to be
quiet during class
that makes sense right that sounds right
we have to be we must be quiet during
class that's correct okay next one we
must not disturb other people where we
must not disturb other people in the
happier that doesn't make sense quiet
hallway we don't disturb other people in
the hallway the hallway is usually a
noisy place people are opening their
lockers like we talked about they're
getting books are talking to each other
so it's kind of hard to disturb somebody
in the hallway because everybody's
already being disturbed there's so much
noise but what about library library is
a more important place that we can talk
about when we say people we must not
disturb other people so we must not
disturb other people in the library and
that's the correct one because we have
to be quiet and pay attention to
everything in the library okay the third
one we should walk carefully in the what
remember when we're walking from one
class to another class where are we we
are of course in the hallway so we
should walk carefully in the hallway
what are their ok these are the causes
these are the actions that we do right
now if we do these things what is the
result
what is the effect what happens because
we do these actions the effect is we
will be deep and safe in school so that
means we will be what we will be happier
and safe in school of course that's what
we were talking about if we're fair and
we we want to be safe we follow the
rules and the rules if we follow these
rules the effect is we will be happier
and safer in school ok now let's talk
about the reading comprehension
questions how well do you remember the
reading let's look at number one at
school there are some rules to what to
make so should we make rules at school
the rules are already there they've
already been made we don't really go to
school to make rules we go to school
when we're at school we follow the rules
we don't make the rules we follow the
rules disturb the rules that's kind of
silly the rules are not people they
cannot be
sturb so our correct answer of course is
to follow remember we follow rules we
obey other people we follow the rules
that's a good expression follow the
rules at school there are some rules to
follow number two what rule should we
follow okay so you just find the answer
to question number one right there right
what rule should we follow in the
hallway now we're talking about the
hallway when we are in the hallway what
should we do we should listen carefully
well know what are we listening to right
remember I said it's very noisy in the
hallway there's nobody really you know
talking to us or giving us instructions
in the hallway we should listen
carefully in the classroom not needed in
the hallway not necessary we should eat
carefully in the hallway actually you
shouldn't eat in the hallway right you
should eat in the cafeteria you can't
eat in the hallway but it's a little
dangerous right somebody hits you
there goes your your lunch is all over
your face right you don't want that so
you shouldn't eat in the hallway how
about walk carefully sure in the hallway
that's where you walk from one classroom
to the other classroom but you should be
careful about how you do it don't run
walk carefully watch where you're going
we talked about that before okay number
three in the library now we are in the
library right students should do what so
think about that remember we talked
about different places in the school in
the library what should we do in the
library students should eat their lunch
quietly and not run do you eat your
lunch in the library you should not eat
your lunch in the library if you spill
your drink you'll get the books will be
ruined
right the librarian will be very angry
so don't eat your lunch in the library
in the library students should be quiet
and not disturb others does that sound
right to you sure it does that's the
right answer because in the library many
students are reading they're
concentrating they're thinking about the
book and if you're loud and you disturb
them
they can't concentrate they can't study
so we should be quiet and we should not
disturb other students in the library
see walk carefully and disturb others
that doesn't make sense right so that
wouldn't be correct okay
so we don't disturb others do not
disturb others in the library
number four we all have our
responsibilities remember our
responsibility the things that we should
do we all have a responsibility to
follow rules that's one of our
responsibilities but why a because rules
help us be safe and fair is that true
absolutely that's true those are the two
things we were talking about rules help
us be safe they help us be fair so it's
our responsibility to follow the rules
because they help us be safe and they
help us be fair let's look at B and C
just for practice we all have a
responsibility to follow rules but
teachers in the principal do not have to
write teachers don't have to follow the
rules right no that's not right teachers
and the principal everybody follows the
rules there are certain things that
people should do and should not do
teachers have rules too they come to
class on time right
they don't shout that shouldn't shout at
the other students right they should be
prepared for their classes these are
rules that teachers have right the
principal has a rule very important rule
the principal has to be fair to all the
students and all the teachers in making
sure they follow the rules so everybody
has rules
everybody should follow those rules
let's look at number C but we do not
have to follow rules in the classroom in
the classroom there's no rules we can
run around and have fun no there are
important rules we do have to follow in
the classroom we do have to follow rules
in the classroom so of course C would
not be correct a is our best answer
rules help us be safe and fair okay
let's take a look at our chart
remember this chart we saw it before
rules to follow at school so what should
we do at school right if our teacher
tells us Shh be quiet we should do what
we should follow directions
she is telling us to do something we
should follow her directions follow
directions the teacher says to do
something you should do it the teacher
says not to do something you should do
it that you'd not do it it means you're
following directions okay what's this
the two students are what are they doing
they seem to be cooperating right they
are helping each other so help others
that's another good rule to follow at
school help each other help others down
here what are these girls doing right
they're being they're behaving well
they're good students they want to talk
but they don't just talk what do they do
they raise their hand to talk so raise
your hand to talk another rule to follow
at school finally in our last rule that
we're having the chart where are these
kids they're in the hallway and what are
they doing in the hall while they're
posing for a picture but if you're in
the hallway and you're going from one
class to another class what should you
not do you should not run in the hallway
do not run in the hallway and that's
another rule that you should follow so
these are all different rules you should
follow at school so our lesson number
two we were talking about time for
school we talked about different places
at school right classroom hallway
library cafeteria many different places
and sometimes there are different rules
for the different places in school okay
well next time you go to school think
about those rules think about what you
should do and what you shouldn't do and
remember we follow rules so that we are
safe and we are fair to everybody so
everybody's happy and they can stay safe
so you guys be happy stay safe we'll see
you next time take care
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01