ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 3 Everything Changes
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 07
[Things Change with Time](https://youtu.be/hkn4g2RSDDEâ€‹)
== Things Change with Time ==

Everything changes from the past to the future. The story of events that happened in the past is called history. History is not fiction. History shows us how things change. The past is different from the present. In the past, you were smaller. In the present, you are getting bigger. The city you live in also changes. In the past, your city was small and not many people lived there. In the present, your city is bigger and there are more people. If we want to see changes in history, we can use a timeline. A timeline can help us to understand when things happened. 
Our history is full of facts telling us what, when, and where things happened.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everyone welcome back to American
textbook reading
I'm Brian Stewart in this lesson we are
on unit 7 and we are talking about
things that change so we're talking
about time periods really you will
discover that everything changes over
time we say over time when we talk about
going from the past to the future we're
talking about going over time so we're
gonna be talking about how do things
change over time but of course there are
many ideas and words that we must study
first let's begin with our first word
which is history history what is history
history is basically the story right we
can see story is in the word history
right story of events events events are
things that happen some something that
happened that happened in earlier times
earlier times so it was earlier than now
so it's interesting things that happened
in the past when we talk about the past
we say things that happened in the past
history is in the past they are things
that happened stories based on true
events right not made-up events but true
events that happened in the past then we
talk about history is history all
throughout the the entire history of the
of the earth do we know it very well
we don't know it very well we can also
talk about the idea of prehistory pre
history prehistory and when we talk
about pre we mean before and we talked
about before history prehistoric
prehistoric and we could put that word
together
prehistoric prehistoric pre means before
how can things be before history when we
think about history we think about human
beings writing down what happened in
earlier times that's history but a long
time ago people didn't write things down
and a long time ago there were no people
like in the time of the dinosaurs or
before that
that's prehistoric so we talk about
prehistoric we mean before humans
started writing history so a long long
time ago
also dinosaurs also early human beings
before they started writing things we
say that's prehistoric so if you hear
prehistoric it means a long time ago
before people started writing down
history okay of course we're talking
about the past and I taught you guys
before in the past when we talk about in
the past we say in the past okay
so past is the time before now before
now is a past we say in the past things
that happened in the past
okay that's before now we of course can
also say the present the present and
again we say in the present in the
present things that are happening things
that are happening now or in the present
the time now now and present is the same
thing they are happening in the present
now
they are happening now that's the
present we live in the present right we
don't live in the past we don't live in
the future we live in the present right
now but the present goes by very quickly
doesn't it it's very interesting
oh yes that's the present and then we of
course have the future and we also say
in the future so you can use this
expression very commonly with past
present future in the past in the
present in the future things that will
happen right things that
will happen things whoops
things that will happen things that will
happen in the future okay
the time to come after now so the past
is before now the present is now the
future is after now and we talk about
things that will happen in the future in
the past in the present in the future
what will the future look like what will
the future look like maybe it will look
like this this is really cool looking
isn't it here's another video here's a
video of what things might look like in
the future we can see very tall
buildings we can see these little things
going back and forth what do you think
they are their cars their vehicles that
would be really cool wouldn't it to be
able to fly a vehicle instead of on the
ground but in the air and this is an
example of what people think the future
will look like we don't know what the
future will look like we can only
imagine or guess okay when we talk about
the future we're not sure about the
future we don't know what will be true
when we talk about the past we have a
pretty good idea of what is true in the
past especially when people wrote down
things we look for facts facts are
things that are true and can be proven
you can prove facts something that is
true we know it happened because people
wrote about it not just one person but
many people wrote about it and maybe
there are evident there maybe there's
evidence for something that happened
even before like for example prehistoric
time how do we know dinosaurs existed
nobody wrote it down but dinosaurs did
exist it's a fact we can prove it
because we can find their bones we can
put the bones together oh this was a
dinosaur it was a long time ago we can
find out when it happened by looking at
the earth and seeing how deep those
bones are found
so we can prove certain things about the
past if we can be proven it's a fact if
it's true it's a fact but what about the
opposite of fact the opposite of fact is
fiction it's not true something that is
made-up and not true made-up is
interesting do you ever in you ever
imagine things do you ever like play it
when you're playing do you imagine
playing with somebody who's not there or
do you imagine with your friends making
a story that didn't really happen or you
think about the past or the future and
you make a story you make it up that's
fiction it's not true of course these
creatures are not true but these
creatures exist in in books and in
literature now that's an interesting
point fiction if you go into a library
there are two big sections in your
library one section is fiction I want to
read about Harry Potter then you go to
the fiction that's made up it's not true
but sometimes you want to learn about
the past you want to learn about true
things do you ask the librarian excuse
me where is your true section no you
asked for the non-fiction section
non-fiction when we talk about books
right there are two classifications for
books fiction nonfiction now when I was
your age this kind of confused me a
little bit because fiction means not
true right so that means not true but
none means not so it's a little
confusing isn't it not not true
well if you have two negatives in
English they cancel each other out
you're left with true okay so if you
have two negatives they cancel each
other out you're left with what remains
is true so the two sections in the
library fiction nonfiction nonfiction
means true don't get confused by that
sounds sounds a little confusing but
nonfiction means true
fiction not true okay so there's two
sections in your library if you want to
read about Harry Potter you will go to
the fiction section but if you want to
learn about Korean history you will go
to the nonfiction section two sections
in the library you want fiction not true
made-up stories fairy tales funny
stories go to the fiction section but if
you want true stories about the past or
about science or something like that go
to the nonfiction section those are the
two main sections in of the library two
main sections for books okay let's move
on to our chart we're talking about
things that change over time right so
we're talking about different time
periods
everything changes over time as you know
if we look at the past if we go to the
nonfiction section of the library and
read books about the past we can see
that things were much different in the
past right we have older buildings
they're not very tall the streets are
dirt right then we look at the present
and we see wow the buildings are really
tall now and the streets we can't even
see the streets but the streets are
paved right many more people much bigger
cities than in the past in the past we
can use see that they used a strange
device right not a strange device it's
actually a common device for counting
right they would put the beads to one
side to count things and that's how they
counted things in the past but nowadays
we can use a computer we put the numbers
in right and we can calculate or we can
add we can use numbers very easily and
in very quickly much many much more
different ways using a computer our
tools to do our work have improved and
become much faster and more complicated
too in the past right we were young well
in the past in your life right you were
a baby you may not be this old but
you're you're almost you're getting
there right you're getting older so
again past you know you're the baby and
present perhaps you were this age or
maybe you're just a little bit younger
okay so we can
see though things how things change over
time old city old cities - new cities
old tools - new tools young people
become older people so things change
over time okay
let's match the words with their
definitions our words our history
history past present present future
future fact fact and fiction fiction
remember these two are our opposites
right okay number one the time now so
the time now right now what do we call
that time which of these words do we use
to describe the time what is happening
right now things that are happening
right now we say that they happen in the
present it's happening right now okay so
that's the present now the time before
now behind us right the time before now
would be of course the past it happened
in the past it's a time before now not
now but before now then we have the time
to come after now so after now right not
the present not now but after later we
of course call that the future okay
so you have present past and future
right we have all those words right here
so you past present future that's the
normal order right okay so that matches
these three words let's move on to the
next three words number four a thing
that is it true and can be proven it can
be proven so if it can be proven it is
true right we call that a fact it's a
fact it's true it really happened or we
can prove that it happened like the
dinosaurs we know dinosaurs are a fact
that they existed because we can prove
their existence we can see the evidence
okay number five something that is made
up
usually in people's minds we make up a
story we make up very funny or
interesting stories and some people
write them down and we enjoy reading
those stories right it's not true what
do we call that we call that fiction so
if you want to read an interesting or
funny imaginary story you will look for
fiction number six the story of events
that happened in earlier times the story
remember that word story what other word
is similar to that of course we can see
history history don't say hi story
that's wrong but it's history right
history so the story of events that
happened in earlier times that happened
in the past that of course is history
and of course when you're talking about
history you're talking about true it's a
true story
okay histories is supposedly true it's
supposed to be true now sometimes we
have to guess but we guess about history
sometimes sure maybe it's not 100% true
but it's what we think is true so the
story of events that happened in earlier
times is history
okay so this is our timeline it's a
chart showing a timeline now a timeline
is a very useful tool to show how things
change over time that's what we have
here how things change over time now
what we have here is we have our our bar
right and this shows ages and what we're
looking at is a timeline for people or
for in this case a person right what is
a timeline
how do things change over time past
usually in the past of course timelines
are all in the past but in the far past
more recent past and recent past so we
see a timeline here is ages right so we
have 0 years old in Korean I think you
say one year old right this is an
American timeline okay
so 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 years
is old how do things change well of
course how do people change over time
when a baby is born right we say one day
old or two days old in American system
tom is born he's a look he's very small
very cute right but he sleeps a lot
right it's just a baby right tom is a
baby right when he's born newborn baby
but when tom is four years old
Tom's fourth birthday see he got bigger
and he's he seems to be more alert and
he seems to know a little bit more about
what's going on right he's a four year
old boy now when Tom after three years
tom has grown bigger and he's becoming
more adventurous and more able to do
things Tom's first bike then he starts
to learn how to ride a bike he's
becoming more and more independent and
he's becoming more and more able to do
things like ride a bike or run or play
with his friends go out with his friends
by himself so this is a timeline showing
how a person changes over time of course
timelines can be used for many things
not just people you could have a
timeline for cities you can show a city
you know five hundred years ago 100
years ago and last week right
so timelines can be used for different
things not just people but cities
countries all sorts of things the earth
you we can show timeline and show how
things have changed over time using
timelines okay here we have another
timeline just like I said just a minute
ago we can use timelines for different
things we can use them for people or we
can use them for things in this case
we're talking about invention and
invention here is the telephone right
how has the invention of the telephone
changed over time we see the pictures
down here and we see the dates up here
right the pictures are a telephone or
rotary phone that you had to dial a dial
phone here is a cell phone
and here is a really old style of phone
that they used like this this they
picked up and put it to the ear and they
spoke into this part so this is the
telephone right these are our dates
1900s 1920s 1940s 1960s 1980s and the
2000s were in the 2000s now right so
this is a timeline going back a hundred
years well think about this where would
we put what do we put in this one in the
1900s
what kind of phone did they use the
1900s remember that's like a a hundred
years ago which type of phone do you
think they used in the nineteen hundreds
before 1910 near 1900 to 1910 what phone
do you think that was well of course if
you chose this one that would be correct
see because that's a really old phone
this is the kind of phone they used a
hundred years ago by the way this type
of phone was very interesting anybody in
your neighborhood could hear you if
you're talking on the phone other people
pick up the phone they could hear your
conversation only one person could use
it in an area at a time it's an
interesting fact okay then let's come up
we come 1920s 1940s 1960s then we're in
the 1980s what phone did we use in the
1980s think about that well of course
you have a or B what type of phone do
you think was used of course it was a
maybe you don't remember this probably
most of you don't remember these types
of phones but this is what I used when I
was a boy right we use this type of
phone
okay now this type of phone you guys
know that's right
in the 2000s now right what type of
phone do we use of course you probably
have one in your pocket right it's the
cell phone B right so this is the new
type of phone this is the phone that you
know and that you use but before this
phone people use this type of phone and
way before this phone people use this
type of phone now I remember using this
type of phone I've never used this type
of phone and I'm very happy to use this
type of phone now you guys are lucky
because you started with this phone it's
very convenient
but you can see how things change over
time from the first invention of the
telephone to another a more modern type
of phone and then to the phone that we
use nowadays that makes us think though
doesn't it
what will the phone be like in the 2020s
will the phone be part of our our our
skin will it be in our clothes who knows
we don't know that's in the future it'll
be very interesting to think about ok
let's go over our true/false questions
number one we live in the past
does that sound correct we live in the
past remember what is the past the past
is before now do we live before now no
we live now
we live in the present so we have to
change that we live in the present we
don't live in the past we live in the
present so we have to change that we
have to change it so it's false right ok
number two fiction is a thing that is
true and can be proven remember I told
you guys fiction and non-fiction let's
just review that really quickly non
fiction nonfiction if you go to a
library and you want to check out a book
on Korean history do you go to the
Korean history is true right we can
prove that what happened in history that
if we want a book about Korean history
it's a true book right so we do we go to
the fiction section or the nonfiction
section remember I told you this can be
a little confusing but fiction means not
true right and none of course means not
also so not not true means true
non-fiction is true fiction is not true
so fiction is a thing that is true and
can be proven no nonfiction or fact fact
fact is a thing that is true and can be
proven yeah we have to change this one
so it's false number three we saw
examples of timelines right we saw a
timeline for Tom and we saw
time line for the telephone a time line
shows what happened in time shows what
happened in time yeah that's true we
could say in time or over time it's
probably more common to say over time
but a time line does show what happened
over time or in time it is true okay so
you can say in time but it's probably
more common to say over time a time line
shows what happened over time true or in
time
okay well that wraps it up for the
vocabulary section let's take a short
break we'll come back and cover the
reading section don't go away
okay kids welcome back to the reading
section of course this reading section
we're talking about things that change
or things change with time so this
reading passage we'll be talking about
that subject how do things change over
time and what are the words and concepts
that we use to describe changes over
time of course we have our topic
sentence here everything changes from
the past to the future from the past to
the future right it's like you're going
somewhere right you're coming from the
past and you're going to the future it's
like a journey isn't it we use similar
language to describe this of course
everything changes all things people
change cities change everything changes
from the past to the future the story of
events the story of events the things
that we've written down that human
beings have written down for thousands
of years the story of events that
happened in the past is called history
we have a rich history our history goes
back thousands of years when people
first started writing things down there
are many many stories to read about
history some of them are fiction right
but most of them are nonfiction most of
them are true especially in in recent
past it becomes more true of course the
story of events that happen in the past
is called history history is not fiction
right it says history is not fiction but
some history is fixed especially a law
long time ago when we're not sure if it
really happened or not some of that
could be fiction but usually history is
not fiction
especially when there were many people
writing down what happened it's not
fiction that happened history shows us
how things change so it shows us how
things will change change over time
right so if we look at a history book
and we see a history book for example of
Seoul or a city in Korea or a city
anywhere in the world we can see how
Seoul was different 200 years ago or 100
years ago and we can imagine how it has
changed over time the past of course is
different from the present that's
obvious of course the past is before now
the present is now we live in the
present the past was different things
are changing all the time and that's by
the way that's a very interesting idea
things change all the time the only
thing you can be sure about is that
things will change there will be change
okay so things are always changing from
the past to the present and from the
present to the future and from the past
to the future we're in between in the
present okay let's move on in the past
for example you were smaller so here we
see an example we're gonna use you as an
example in the past you were smaller in
the present now you are getting bigger
right now you are getting bigger you're
getting bigger
this way I'm getting bigger this way
okay yeah but we're all getting bigger
right the city you live in also changes
so this is another example one example
is you another example is the city you
live in the city you live in or really
any city also changes in the past your
city was small probably a lot smaller
than it is now it was small not many
people lived there so few people it was
a small city not a lot of people lived
there nowadays it's probably grown more
people lived there in the present your
city is bigger and there are more
people so that's what we've seen so
we've seen in this example here this
part of the reading passage we have two
examples showing how things change over
time
the first example is you you were
smaller now you're getting bigger in the
past your city your city is the second
example the city was small not many
people lived there but in the present
your city is bigger right and there are
more people probably not always but
usually okay and in the last part of the
passage if we want to see changes in
history we can use a timeline so now
we've gone into the idea of using a
timeline remember a timeline what is a
timeline a timeline can help us to
understand help us understand when
things happened okay so a timeline is
like a tool we use and we can see
different things on the timeline we used
pictures and we put pictures on the
different timeline or we use sentences
descriptions for the different periods
of the timeline and we can see how
things have changed using a timeline our
history is full of facts telling us what
where and I'm sorry what when and where
things happened so our history is full
of facts it tells us what happened when
it happened where it happened it also
tells us who was involved right
sometimes it tells us how so it tells us
many things about the past about when
things happened so the history is full
of facts usually use full of facts now
again usually history is factual
sometimes it may be not factual because
people aren't sure but people make
guesses and so usually history is full
of facts telling us what things were
like in the past and we can use a
timeline especially to look exactly at
how things have changed over time okay
let's move on to our reading skill chart
our reading skill chart is talking we're
talking about compare and contrast and
this is a good subject to use this type
of skill because we're comparing the
past to the present to the future we can
compare many things in this
case were comparing past to present so
in the past you were smaller in the
present you are getting B we have many
blanks our words here are more bigger
past and future okay so in the past you
were smaller now in the present you are
getting what you are getting more that's
weird
you're getting bigger aren't you so you
were smaller now you are getting bigger
so you're getting bigger in the present
in the past your city was small not many
people not many people lived there right
but in the present your city is bigger
there are what if we say not many not
many what's the opposite of that or
what's the progression of that not many
we would say more more people now there
are more people living there before not
many now the opposite of that would be
more more people are living there
everything changes from the beep to the
beep
remember we had the from and then to
it's like a journey you're coming from
where are you coming from if you we talk
about time we are coming from the past
where are we going we're going to the
future so from the past to the future
we're coming from the past we're going
to the future it's like a journey over
time ok let's take a look at our reading
comprehension questions number one the
past is different from what the past is
different from what our choices are
fiction present or history which one of
these is a time period right we're
comparing a time period to another time
period the only other time period is be
present present is another time period
fiction is not a time period history is
not a time period but we need a time
period to compare the past is different
from the present right the Paris is
different from the present things change
over time number two a time line
remember a time line is our tool what
can we use it for it can show what
happened when in the past the present or
the future
think about the two timelines we looked
at before first
looked at a timeline of a boy right tom
we saw when he was a baby we saw when he
was four years old we saw when he was
seven years old that told us about Tom's
past then we saw a timeline about the
telephone we saw an old-style telephone
a telephone that was a more modern and
then we saw today's telephone these
timelines showed us how things changed
in the past right not the present not
the future right we don't know about the
future right it's hard to make a
timeline for the future because it would
all be fiction right it would all be
made-up timelines we use to show how
things have changed in the past or what
events have happened in the past okay
let's move on to number three number
three says the story of events that
happened in the past the story of events
remember the story and what do we what
do we talk about there we say a is
called a timeline and it is fiction so
the story of events is a timeline a
timeline doesn't tell us a story just
shows different like pictures snapshots
very quick pictures of things that
change over time
not really a story is it fiction is it
not true no the story of events that
happen in the past is true its fact
right B so a is not a is not a correct
answer
what about be the story of events that
happen in the past is called the future
and it is fiction happened in the past
is called the future that doesn't make
sense that doesn't match right it
doesn't match C must be your answer
the story of events that happen in the
past is called history that's true
and it is fact mostly yes that's true it
is fact so the story of events that
happened in the past is called history
and it is fact so we talk about you know
the events that happened a long time ago
we're talking about history and usually
that is fact right that is nonfiction
fact okay number four to see changes in
history we want to look at changes in
history you can use it
timeline ABC which which which okay so
which goes back to timeline so these
sentences are going to describe timeline
a little bit more they're going to be
true about a timeline a which shows when
things happened okay a timeline which
shows when things happen is that true
yes a timeline shows when things happen
so that is the correct answer
let's just do B and C for practice B
which shows why things happened that's
our key word right there there's a
timeline show why things happened
no it just shows when things happen we
can't know from a timeline why things
happen we don't know that a timeline
doesn't show us the timeline only shows
us when things happened okay see which
shows fiction not facts is that true no
remember a timeline is used to show
history which is based on fact okay not
fiction okay
so C is not correct which shows fiction
not facts again we have to come back to
a a is our only true answer which shows
when things happened a timeline shows
when things happened not why things
happen and not things that didn't happen
like fiction it shows us when things
happen that's what we use a timeline for
okay let's move on to our chart here we
have things that change with time
everything changes over time we have our
pictures remember we need to fill in the
time period actually this is pretty easy
right we can see an old city we can see
a new city we can see old tools new tool
we can see old person actually young
person but a person a long time ago
before now and when you see a person now
right so what we're showing of course is
before now and now before now now before
now now what is before now do you
remember before now we say is the past
and what is now things that are
happening now we say it's in the present
okay so we've talked in this unit things
that change over time we've talked about
three diff
time periods we've talked about in the
past in the present and in the future
right we know things that happened in
the past we're talking about history
mostly we know that it's true history is
fact right not fiction history is things
that really happened if you go to the
library you want to learn about history
you go to the nonfiction section the
true section the present of course is
what's happening now what's happening
all around us right at this very minute
that is the present and the future of
course we don't know about the future we
can only imagine but what we'll think
how will things change in the future
what will things be like in the future
where everything changes over time
everything you are changing over time
right now so anyway that wraps up this
lesson I hope you've learned a lot we'll
see you again next time take care
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01