ðŸ’“ [American Textbook Reading Grade 1 Social Studies 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLORqQa0DiANFtzI0DEge060Wxm9H0oNlW)

Part 5 Where We Live
ðŸ’“ American Textbook Reading |  Social Studies 01 | Lesson 14
[Weather and Seasonsâ€‹](https://youtu.be/z4QGzFzUn9A)
== Weather and Seasons ==
We have four seasons every year. 

Every season has different weather.
The weather affects how we dress and how we live. 
In winter, the temperature is very low. 
The weather is cold and we need to dress warm in scarves and gloves. 
In spring, the weather is warmer.
Animals come out of their homes and flowers bloom. 
In summer, the weather is very hot and there is a lot of daylight. 
In summer, there are a lot of clouds. 
Dark clouds mean rain. 
In summer, people enjoy playing outside and swimming in the ocean. 
In fall, the weather is cooler and leaves fall from the trees. 
In fall, people and animals prepare for the cold winter.


Transcript
[Music]
hello everybody welcome back to American
textbook reading I'm Brian Stewart while
we're on lesson 14 now aren't we we're
talking about weather and seasons so in
this unit you will discover types of
weather different types of weather and
how weather affects us how weather
affects us means how does it change what
we do we do different things in
different types of weather but first
let's talk about weather what is weather
right that's our first vocabulary word
weather is the conditions of the air
outside right if we go outside of the
building outside of our home outside of
our school outside what are the
conditions of the air we can say how's
the weather how's the weather that's one
way how's the weather how's the weather
outside how's the weather outside or
how's the weather we could also say what
is is the weather what is the weather
like what is the weather like so what is
it like how is it how's the weather what
is the weather like you can see there
are many different conditions of the air
outside it can be hot right it can be
windy this is this picture shows really
strong winds right really strong wind
very windy this one what's the weather
like in this picture we can see snow
flakes it's snowing so it's snowing Oh
snowing and over here we see raindrops
so here it is raining Wow it's a very
busy slide right okay so the conditions
of the air outside how's the weather
what is the weather like
it's hot it's windy it's snowing it's
raining we're talking about different
types of weather okay so we can talk
about the weather we can also talk about
the seasons because weather changes in
each season what is a season a season is
any of the four main periods of the year
especially in countries that are more
northern right so like in Korea there
are four main seasons of the year well
think about that in a year how many
months are in a year there are twelve
months so if we think about that there
are four main periods of the year we
divide 12 by 4 we get 3 so what does
that tell us that means 3 months for
each season right what are the seasons
of course we can see them here this of
course is um well they kind of ordered
it a little bit okay here this starting
off with spring okay then what do we
have after spring of course we have
summer then we have fall things are
turning brown and leaves are falling
from the tree and then we have winter
everything is covered with snow so when
we take a look at three months three
months for spring three months for
summer three months for fall three
months for winter each season is three
months long four main periods of the
year divided by twelve divided by four
is three three months for each season
about that much and the weather we can
see the weather changes for each season
let's talk about that
the first one we talked about was spring
right spring is the season between
winter and summer what is the weather
like in the spring
well in the spring it gets warmer
doesn't it because it's after the winter
so it gets warmer also in the spring
you'll notice it rains a lot
right it rains a lot so the weather in
the spring is that it's warmer and it
rains a lot a lot of rain comes down and
spring is between winter and summer
after spring we have summer right summer
is the next season the warmest season of
the year coming after spring so summer
is the warmest season in fact I would
say not just warm it's hot especially
here in Korea it gets really hot and
also it gets sick EU say sip key right
sip key that means humid it's very humid
there's a lot of moisture in the air so
hot and humid and it also rains quite a
bit it can rain quite a bit in the
summer as well so it's hot humid a good
time to go swimming with your friends at
the beach or in a swimming pool right
good time for swimming so that's the
warmest season of the year after summer
fall fall is the season between summer
and winter very easy right it follows
summer it's before winter what is the
weather like in the fall the weather
gets cooler so it's cooler in the fall
and usually we have clear skies clear
skies so not a lot of rain but we have
wind right cooler it's windy and because
it's windy we have clear skies because
the wind makes the skies very clear so
it's cooler it's windy and we have clear
skies in the fall what's after fall of
course winter right winter it's very
cold right the coldest season of the
year coming after fall so of course we
what is the weather like in the winter
we can see of course that it's cold so
cold very cold really cold in the winter
and of course it's snowy a lot of snow
comes down in the winter so it's cold
and snowy in the winter
okay we talked a little bit about
temperature for each season spring
summer fall and winter I and each season
I said you know it's warm it's hot it's
cool or it's cold when we talk about
those things we're talking about
temperature
everybody temperature so temperature is
a measure of how hot or cold something
is it's a measure because you know we
can say in the spring it's warm but what
do we mean by warm if I say it's warm
another person may say that's not warm
it's kind of cool we need to have a
exact measurement so everybody knows
exactly what we're talking about and by
that we use temperature so if I say that
it is 50 degrees out or it looks like
yeah this is 80 degrees all right it's
hard to read that picture if it's 80
degrees Fahrenheit if it's 80 degrees
Fahrenheit I understand exactly how warm
it is I exactly understand exactly how
hot or cool or warm it is now in America
they use Fahrenheit that's here the
degrees Fahrenheit on this picture but
in Korea and everywhere else in the
world you of course use Celsius so
eighty degrees Fahrenheit looks like
about 26 degrees Celsius it's a well
it's about the same as 26 degrees
Celsius that's warm isn't it if it's 26
degrees Celsius that's usually
summertime okay that's warm temperature
okay so temperature is how hot or cold
something is and it's exact if I say
it's 26 degrees Celsius you know exactly
how hot it is right I don't just say
it's hot how hot 26 degrees Celsius
that's hot okay okay cloud a cloud is
many drops of water together in the air
so if you're talking about moisture air
rising up into the cool air way up above
in the above the earth right
those clap those water droplets will get
together they will condense they will
gather together and they will form a
cloud and we can see on nice days you
know we can see nice clouds that look
like this on rainy days the sky is
nothing but clouds it's all gray and
overcast right so if there are many
clouds we say it's over
cast overcast means very cloudy very
cloudy and this of course is a weather
type it's very cloudy or it's overcast
probably it will rain this is not
overcast this is just a few clouds in
the sky it's not cloudy this is a nice
day right not cloudy but if there are
many clouds we say it's very cloudy or
overcast okay now here's a chart showing
different types of weather it's a nice
chart showing what we've been talking
about when I said cloudy right we can
see many clouds they cover the Sun so
it's hard to see the Sun sometimes
because there's many clouds in the sky
then it is cloudy if you say very cloudy
you can't hardly see the Sun it's
overcast now of course we can say it's
rainy that means rain is falling rain is
falling it is rainy usually in the
spring in the summer we have lots of
rain windy
this poor guy riding his bicycle right
block the wind turns his umbrella inside
out right so it's very windy very strong
wind right made his umbrella inside out
right so a very strong wind you say it's
very windy usually in the fall it's very
windy snowy snowy of course is when snow
falls on the ground everything's white
some people say it's beautiful
other people say oh it's very difficult
so depending on what you want to do of
course it's snowy
what is the season usually winter sunny
it's sunny out that means there's lots
of Sun
not any clouds and it's very Sun you can
go outside and enjoy the warm sunny
weather and of course this is usually
spring and summer sometimes of course
you get sunny days in the fall as well
you also get sunny days in the winter
right you can have strong sunny days in
the winter even though there's snow
everywhere and that's very bright
outside you have to wear sunglasses
because it's too white too bright okay
so these are different types of weather
now let's match each word to its
definition our words are weather season
spring summer fall and winter so we can
see our four seasons here and a couple
of other words let's take a look number
one any of the four main periods of the
year we talked about that right
there are twelve months in the year
divided by four main periods each one
lasts for three months what are they of
course we're talking about the season
season is any of the four main periods
of the year spring summer fall winter
number two the conditions of the air
outside so the conditions of the air
that's kind of like what is the weather
like right how is the weather so in this
case we're talking about the weather
the conditions of the air outside we're
talking about the weather
number three the coldest season the
coldest season very cold and a lot of
snow comes down the coldest season of
the year coming after fall so after fall
what do we have we have of course winter
winter comes after fall the coldest
season of the year okay number four the
warmest season of the year very hot
during this season coming after spring
right it's very hot we have long days
during this season and it comes after
spring what season is it can you guess
of course it is summer
number five the season between summer
and winter so after summer but before
winter
what is that season called it's cool
it's windy usually we have clear skies
what do we call that season of course we
call that season fall six the season
between winter and summer so after
winter before summer and what is this
weather like in this season usually it's
rainy but it gets warmer especially
after winter it's becoming warmer you
get some rain things start to grow it's
a very colorful season right what do we
call that season
that's spring right we get spring after
winter and before summer
okay let's take a look at a chart here
how weather affects us how weather
affects us means how does it change our
life or what influence does it have on
us how do we have to change right how
does it affect us what does it do to us
we have sunny snowy and rainy what do we
do in those different weather conditions
when it's sunny how does it affect us we
can plant lots of flowers so it can
change our behavior right well we can
plant lots of flowers on sunny days good
thing to do go out in your garden and
plant flowers if it's snowy how does
that affect us how does it change our
behavior
well we can play in the snow these kids
are having well not kids mom and
daughter mom and daughter this way
they're having fun they're playing in
the snow what did they make they made a
snowman snowman whoops
make a snowman so make a snowman you
make a snowman and they're having fun
they're playing in the snow of course
during the winter now here we have rainy
rainy weather how does that affect us
well we should put on a raincoat we
should put on a raincoat that's what
this girl has done she has a very cute
raincoat on right to protect her
the rain to keep her dry another thing
that it effects us we should bring an
umbrella
we should bring whoops bring an umbrella
with us we'll make the G bring and
Braille la difficult word umbrella
umbrella bring an umbrella with you also
put on a raincoat these are different
ways that these different weather types
affect us change our behavior okay let's
complete the sentence to best describe
these pictures we have three pictures
here we have this sentence to complete
let's take a look at this sentence we
dress and play in a way in a way in a
manner that is best that is best for the
BEP outside what are we talking about
here let's take a look at the pictures
in this picture is very sunny and this
kid looks very happy she's in the
swimming pool she's got her little
floatation tube her inner tube air tube
and she's having a good time it's sunny
it's warm she's enjoying the water here
it's snowy outside and these two kids
are on the sled they're having a good
time riding down a hill sledding down a
hill now this girl here it's in the fall
obviously many leaves have fallen from
the trees she's having fun playing in
the leaves so what are these different
types of this is sunny snowy and cool
right and all leaves are falling cooler
so what are they showing they're showing
different types of what they're showing
different types of weather so we just
and play in a way that is best for the
weather outside so if the weather is hot
and sunny we go swimming if the weather
is cold and snowy we go on a sled ride
we play in the snow and if it's cool and
the leaves have fallen because it's
getting colder and colder every day then
we go out we can play in the leaves so
according to the weather we dress
we play in different ways okay so now
we've come to our true or false
questions let's take a look at each
sentence and figure out if it's true or
false number one weather is how hot or
cold something is so it's interesting to
note how hot or cold something is
something means anything so if I'm
talking about this pen and I'm talking
about how hot or cold this pen is I'm
talking about the measure of how hot or
cold it is do I say whether I'm just
talking about the weather of this pen no
of course not that's great that's silly
right that's a bit silly that's not the
definition that we went over when we
want to know how hot or cold something
is we're not talking about weather for
something we're talking about what we're
talking about temperature so we need to
talk we change this to temperature by
the way I pronounce it temperature to
remember the spelling temperature but
pronunciation temperature temperature so
you can think temperature for spelling
but pronounce it in this way temperature
temperature okay good so temperature is
how hot or cold something is remember we
said it's the measure of how hot or cold
something is yes move on to number two a
cloud is many drops of water together in
the air remember we saw the picture of a
nice white fluffy cloud in the sky yeah
that cloud is many drops of water
together in the air so that is true
right it's true a cloud is many drops of
water together in the air that's true
number three winter is the coldest
season of the year right I kept going
winter who is very cold right so yeah of
course winter is the coldest season of
the year that's absolutely true what's
the hottest season of the year do you
remember that's right it's summer so
summer is the hottest season of the year
winter is the coldest season of the year
so summer and winter are
Bassett's okay that wraps up the
vocabulary section for this unit we're
gonna take a short break we're gonna
come back and take a look at the reading
section so don't go away see you soon
okay welcome back to the reading section
we're going to go over the reading
passage for this unit unit number
fourteen and of course we're talking
about weather and seasons so we can see
first of all our first sentence of the
passage is we have four seasons every
year every season has different weather
so these two sentences tell us what
they're kind of like serve as our topic
sentence right we talk about topic
sentence sometimes we can split up the
topic sentence into two sentences so
first of all we have four seasons every
year every season has different weather
so that's the main idea of our passage
that's what we're talking about okay
so we're gonna be talking about the
different types of weather for each
season now the weather affects how we
dress and how we live and that's true so
we're talking we're giving a little bit
more definition about weather we're
giving more details about what the
weather does for us or what how it
affects us remember it affects us and
how we change your behavior how do we
behave according to the weather what do
we do in different weather conditions so
the weather affects how we dress and how
we live so what kind of clothes do we
put on and what do we do what are our
everyday activities in during the day
then we talked about the different
seasons we're starting off with winter
in this passage so in winter in winter
the temperature is very low we talked
about cold and coldest season when we
talked about temperature you're gonna
have high temperature you can have low
temperature so the temperature is very
low in the winter it's very cold the
weather is cold and we need to dress
warm in scarves and gloves so this tells
us a little bit right we have this
sentence here the weather affects how we
dress how we dress this sentence tells
us
how we dress in the winter because of
the weather the weather is very cold so
we dress in scarves and gloves
okay in the spring okay after the winter
we have the spring the weather is warmer
animals come out of their homes and
flowers bloom right flowers open up they
show us their colors so flowers bloom
animals that were sleeping during the
winter they come out of their homes they
go home there's winter over yet I hope
so it's spring now okay
in the summer the weather is very hot
and there is a lot of daylight the days
are very long in the summer a lot of
daylight and it becomes very hot in the
summer there are a lot of clouds okay in
the summer we can see many clouds in the
sky some days in the summer many many
clouds and if we see dark clouds if the
clouds are very dark that means rain so
what does that mean it means if we see
dark clouds that tells us that it's
going to rain dark clouds mean rain so
if we see something we can guess about
the meaning or what those things
symbolize or what those things are
telling us we can see the signs right of
something dark clouds that's a sign of
rain dark clouds mean rain okay so when
there aren't dark clouds and it's not
raining in the summer in the summer
we're continuing with the idea of summer
in summer people enjoy playing outside
and swimming in the ocean so these are
this is the way that the hot weather
affects us when it's not raining of
course we play outside and we swim in
the ocean fun activities to do when it's
hot outside and of course when it's not
raining um so we've talked about three
seasons so far we started with winter
then we talked about spring we just
finished talking about summer we got one
more season left fall right so fall in
fall the weather is cooler and leaves
fall from the
so leaves are falling from the trees in
the fall it becomes cooler we stop
swimming in the ocean we start putting
on more clothes in fall people and
animals people and animals prepare for
the cold winter so that's how it affects
us we start to prepare for the cold
winter we start putting it on more
clothes maybe we go out and buy warmer
clothes we start thinking about the
winter and what we need to do for the
winter and the cold weather okay we have
our reading skill here the main idea and
details now the main idea of this
reading passage is the weather affects
how we dress and how we play so how we
dress and how we play the weather
affects us in winter spring summer and
fall we need to fill in these blanks
here the blanks we need for words the
Fords are temperature temperature hot
leaves and bloom just take a look in
winter the BEP is very low we need to
dress warm what is very low in the
winter temperature hot leaves bloom well
of course you guessed it the temperature
is very low in the winter so the
temperature is very low we need to dress
warm because the temperature is low
that's how the winter weather affects us
in the spring animals come out and
flowers
what do flowers do in the spring do they
hot do they leaves do they leave now
that's a different meaning the hot
leaves or do they bloom of course they
bloom they come out they show us are
their colors they show us our colors and
they're very beautiful spring is a very
beautiful and colorful season okay in
the summer the weather is very what
people enjoy swimming in the ocean so if
it's very one outside of course if it's
very hot outside you can go swimming in
the ocean
to cool down right because it's too hot
you want to go swimming to cool your
body to cool down
in the fall the weather is cooler and
what fall from the trees what falls from
the trees of course leaves fall from the
trees we can go and play in the leaves
we also go and look at the leaves in the
fall it's very beautiful the leaves turn
different colors okay so let's go over
the reading comprehension questions
number one what changes with the change
of seasons the change of seasons that's
a good expression because as the seasons
change one into another we call that
process the change of seasons so what
changes with the change of seasons when
spring changes into summer
what changes a spring be weather see
beaches so with a change of seasons to
spring change that doesn't make sense
because when summer changes into fall
there's got nothing to do with spring so
that doesn't make sense
what changes with the change of seasons
the weather yeah what we're talking
about right
when summer changes into fall the
weather changes it becomes it goes from
hot to cooler so the weather changes to
be cooler so that is our correct answer
beaches beaches change with the with the
change of seasons well the beach is kind
of stay the same but the weather
conditions around the beaches and that
water temperature changes so weather is
a better answer for this problem number
two in winter in winter what's true a
the temperature is low B the weather is
hot C animals wear gloves obviously C is
very silly I have never seen an animal
wearing gloves okay that's very silly so
a and B are a choice is a or B B as
whether it's hot the winter the weather
is hot now that doesn't make sense
in winter the temperature is low yes
that's what we're talking about in the
winter it's very cold it's the coldest
season the temperature the measure of
how hot or cold something is is very low
in the winter okay let's move on to
question number three question number
three says in
summer there are a lot of clouds and
then we have which means which means
which means so basically it means
remember what we said dark clouds means
rain so that's the same idea there are a
lot of clouds which means what does that
tell us if there are a lot of clouds
what does that tell us a which means it
is very cold so a lot of clouds that
tells us it's cold now it could be very
hot and there could be many clouds in
the sky so a is not correct B which
means it could rain could means may be
might it's possible there is a chance of
rain
so if you see many clouds in the sky
does that tell you it could rain
absolutely that's for sure B is a
correct answer
let's look at C for practice which means
that flowers will bloom so if you see
many clouds in the sky doesn't mean
flowers will bloom of course not there
could be many clouds in the sky on a
cold winter's day
it doesn't mean flowers are gonna come
up out of the snow and bloom that
doesn't mean that all right so the best
answer of course is B many clouds in the
sky means it could rain doesn't mean it
will rain it means it could rain there
is a likelihood there is a chance it
probably will rain okay so that's a
difference there okay so B is the right
answer for in fall the weather is cooler
right cooler than the summer and a B or
C and people and animals prepare for the
cold winter is that true the weather is
cooler sure and people and animals
prepare for the cold winter why because
winter follows fall so yeah a is true
let's take a look at B and C for
practice in fall the weather is cooler
and trees and animals begin to fall as
it is going to snow trees and animals
begin to fall my gosh
dog watch out right that's crazy right
trees and animals don't fall right
because the weather is cooler and it's
going to snow
that's this very very silly answer so no
that's not correct trees and animals
begin to fall that's kind of funny if
that were true none of the trees would
still be standing then all be falling
down anyway enough about number B see
people start to go to the beach to swim
in fall the weather is cooler and people
start to go to the beach to swim if the
weather is cooler people are gonna start
going to the beach no people are gonna
stop going to the beach right after
summer is fall the weather gets cooler
in the summer people were going to the
beach to swim but now it's fall the
weather is cooler so people are gonna
stop not start to go to the beach and
swim so C is not the correct answer
people stop we'd have to change that
stop going oops stop going so people
stop going to the beach to swim that
would be correct right
not start to go right so we have to
change it C is not correct so a is the
correct answer for number 4 ok let's
move on to our chart our chart is
showing types of weather we're going to
start here and go around in a circular
direction let's take a look
types of weather the first picture we
see a cloud there's one here there's
another one here there's a bunch more
over here they're blocking the Sun the
Sun is hiding behind the clouds so what
do we say what's the weather like or
how's the weather we say it's cloudy
it's cloudy outside ok over here
this woman she seems to be happy about
it usually if I'm in her situation I'm
not as happy as she is but she's wearing
a hat she's wearing a raincoat because
water rain is falling on her how's the
weather it's rainy ok next one down this
poor boy is hiding his bicep
and it's very strong wind has turned his
umbrella inside out so the wind is very
strong right in that case we say what's
the weather like we say it's windy over
here we see a boy I'm not really sure
what he's doing
looks like he's kissing the nose of a
snowman right that's a carrot sticking
out of the snowman
it looks like he's kissing the end of
the nose of the snowman but anyway
there's a lot of snow on the ground and
he was able to make a snowman so what's
the weather like it's snowy there's a
lot of snow outside especially when the
snow is falling we say it's snowy we can
also say it's snowy when there's snow on
the ground what's the what's what is the
weather like outside
that's very snowy on the ground it's a
lot of snow outside over here these kids
are playing it's a very bright Sun light
is shining on them and on the field that
they're playing it's a warm day so if
there's a lot of Sun what's the weather
like it's sunny okay so these are our
types of weather now in this unit in
unit 14 we were talking about weather
and seasons of course we're talking
about different types of weather we're
also talking about the different seasons
remember spring summer fall winter there
are four seasons each season is about
three months long because each season is
one of the four main periods of the year
and in each season the weather changes
these changes in the weather affect us
it affects how we dress it affects how
we act or how we live what we do every
day in the spring it's cool and it's
raining so we put on raincoats we bring
our umbrellas with us in the summer it's
very hot so we play outside we go
swimming at the beach in the fall it
gets cooler so we start to wear warmer
clothes we can play in the leaves in the
winter it's very cold and it's snowy so
we can play in the snow but we also have
to dress very warmly so these are things
that
we have this is how the weather affects
us and how the weather changes for each
season so whatever season it is I hope
that you do enjoy the weather even if
it's rainy or snowy outside I hope that
you can go outside afterwards and enjoy
the weather and you can think about that
of course when you think about this unit
what's the weather like outside now you
can explain that in English you can also
think about how the weather changes
according to the seasons that wraps it
up for this lesson we'll see you guys
next time take care everybody
American Textbook Reading | Social Studies 01