# UNIT 7 Energy | Lesson 13 Energy

- <https://youtu.be/YT-QjCNBVGo>
- Focus on
  - 1.Think about different kinds of energy.
  - 2.What does energy do?

- [UNIT 7 Energy | Lesson 13 Energy](#unit-7-energy--lesson-13-energy)
  - [un-toggle timestamps Transcript](#un-toggle-timestamps-transcript)
  - [toggle timestamps Transcript](#toggle-timestamps-transcript)

## un-toggle timestamps Transcript

[Music]
let's talk about the vocabulary for this
unit we're gonna learn a lot of words
and we'll need those words for the
reading later on our first word is a
hole in a building that we look through
a hole no usually it's not a hole that
somebody made because they were angry no
it's a hole that people make that the
builder of the building makes we call it
a window right it's not just a hole and
sometimes we will we cover that window
with glass right so air can't come in
and out but we can look out right a hole
in the building that we can look through
because if there are no windows a hole
normal ship ship hail right it's very
boring we feel we don't feel good so we
want windows we can look through and
light natural light from outside can
come in that's good Chun moon right in
cream you say Chung moon that would be
window a window number two on a bright
sunny day you see this a lot don't you
this is a place where light doesn't go
right light goes here and here and here
and here and here and here right but
light does not go here or here so a
place where light doesn't go is a shadow
and on a sunny day your shadow is always
with you right you can always see your
shadow and you can see other people's
shadow too you can see the shadow of
buildings you can see the shadow of cars
sometimes you see the shadow of an
airplane whoa right and that's very
interesting an airplane up in the sky
can make a shadow on the ground okay so
that's shadow number three to trap and
hold Wow he's a he looks like a good
Yahoo player right he's a good baseball
player and he's going to see the ball
right here he's get ready it's gonna go
on his glove what is he gonna do he's
to catch catch the ball to trap
something because something's moving you
stop it
that means to trap it and then you hold
it right that means to catch something
okay so he's gonna catch now let's take
a look
catch caught caught because catch is an
irregular verb it's not a regular verb
so catch caught caught okay that is the
verb to use to trap and hold something
okay the next word number four to keep
from going stop right if you see the
policeman if you're gonna walk across
the street be careful the policeman
might say stop it's a red light don't go
stop wait okay that means to keep from
going stop stop opposite of go of course
okay so be careful when you're on the
street pay attention you need to know
when you should stop and when you should
go number five energy that warms things
these two girls are sitting in front of
a fire we talked about three types of
energy before right remember one type of
energy that warms things that makes you
warm in front of a fire or a fireplace
you feel heat you feel heat ah it keeps
you warm maybe outside it's cold it's
winter mover you want to stay inside
next to a fire to feel heat oil number
six to use heat we use heat not just to
warm our bodies but we also use heat
with food we change food right if you
have for example a steak right the steak
is not brown when you mother buys it at
the store it's pink it's red do you only
eat it
yeah well that's wrong eat that you
don't want to eat that you want to
change it you want to change it so it's
brown warm and it's juicy right that's
what you do
with heat then is you cook you cook the
food that's changing the food use heat
to change the food that is to cook are
you a cook or do you let your mom cook
all the time probably let your mom but
help her out see if you can help her to
cook okay number seven this man seems
like he's trying to hear something
something we hear right it's another
type of energy we talked about in the
beginning we talked about three kinds of
energy right this is one type this of
course is sound sound is something we
hear there are many different kinds of
sounds right there's loud sounds soft
sounds right there's long sounds and
short sounds there's all different kinds
of sounds good sounds and bad sounds
right but they are all sounds here we
have to pass a thing to someone else
this woman here is giving the little
girl a basket and I just used the word
right she's giving to give give and give
is an irregular verb so we say give gave
given one more time give gave given okay
good so that's very easy verb you give
something you do this all the time don't
you you give something to somebody else
very common thing to do number nine what
makes things happen what makes things
happen that's a good question work makes
things happen I'm sorry but around the
house you need to work if you want your
clothes to be clean well your mom has to
work she washes your clothes but you
have to pick up the clothes off your
floor put your clothes away if you want
things to happen in your room you have
to work right and that's good it's good
to work because it helps you get things
it makes things happen okay then we have
number 10 to be straight on your feet
not like this whoa
right that's lean right if I do that
that's called too lean right I'm like
this right some people like to lean
against the wall don't lean against the
wall especially not an elevator wall
right you should stand up right stand
stand stand it straight on your feet
sometimes if you're like this your
teacher or your mom might say stand up
right
don't don't lean okay stand stand stood
stood okay it's a regular verb one more
time stand stood stood okay good number
11 whoa that's what is that that looks
like ice cream no it's not ice cream
okay kinda looks like ice cream a very
bright ice cream maybe orange flavor but
that's not ice cream that is a huge ball
of light and heat it doesn't normally
look like this in fact don't look at it
because it's not good for your eyes but
if you had a special camera maybe a
telescope scientists can take pictures
of it and it looks like this it's huge
this is so big we can't imagine how big
this thing is
what is it of course I'm talking about
the Sun the Sun is a big ball of light
and heat huge ball of light and heat in
the sky and it's far away really far
away so it looks small to us but it's
really really big but even though it's
so far away it's so big we can still
feel the light and we can feel the heat
from the Sun without the Sun we couldn't
live okay so it's a very important thing
to us it's the Sun okay the next word
Wow right this guy is really driving how
is he driving he's moving quickly his
wheels aren't even on the ground that's
how fast he's going he is going so fast
his wheels are
off the ground right he just jumped but
you have to be moving fast to do that
don't drive fast it's dangerous you
don't drive anyway but don't drive fast
it's a little dangerous okay
but if you walk fast walk quickly you
can walk you can run but be careful when
you do so

## toggle timestamps Transcript

00:00
[Music]
00:04
let's talk about the vocabulary for this
00:08
unit we're gonna learn a lot of words
00:10
and we'll need those words for the
00:13
reading later on our first word is a
00:16
hole in a building that we look through
00:20
a hole no usually it's not a hole that
00:25
somebody made because they were angry no
00:28
it's a hole that people make that the
00:30
builder of the building makes we call it
00:32
a window right it's not just a hole and
00:34
sometimes we will we cover that window
00:37
with glass right so air can't come in
00:40
and out but we can look out right a hole
00:43
in the building that we can look through
00:45
because if there are no windows a hole
00:47
normal ship ship hail right it's very
00:49
boring we feel we don't feel good so we
00:52
want windows we can look through and
00:54
light natural light from outside can
00:57
come in that's good Chun moon right in
01:00
cream you say Chung moon that would be
01:02
window a window number two on a bright
01:08
sunny day you see this a lot don't you
01:12
this is a place where light doesn't go
01:15
right light goes here and here and here
01:18
and here and here and here right but
01:21
light does not go here or here so a
01:24
place where light doesn't go is a shadow
01:30
and on a sunny day your shadow is always
01:35
with you right you can always see your
01:37
shadow and you can see other people's
01:39
shadow too you can see the shadow of
01:42
buildings you can see the shadow of cars
01:46
sometimes you see the shadow of an
01:49
airplane whoa right and that's very
01:51
interesting an airplane up in the sky
01:54
can make a shadow on the ground okay so
01:58
that's shadow number three to trap and
02:02
hold Wow he's a he looks like a good
02:04
Yahoo player right he's a good baseball
02:06
player and he's going to see the ball
02:09
right here he's get ready it's gonna go
02:11
on his glove what is he gonna do he's
02:13
to catch catch the ball to trap
02:17
something because something's moving you
02:20
stop it
02:21
that means to trap it and then you hold
02:22
it right that means to catch something
02:25
okay so he's gonna catch now let's take
02:28
a look
02:29
catch caught caught because catch is an
02:33
irregular verb it's not a regular verb
02:36
so catch caught caught okay that is the
02:40
verb to use to trap and hold something
02:43
okay the next word number four to keep
02:47
from going stop right if you see the
02:51
policeman if you're gonna walk across
02:53
the street be careful the policeman
02:56
might say stop it's a red light don't go
02:59
stop wait okay that means to keep from
03:03
going stop stop opposite of go of course
03:07
okay so be careful when you're on the
03:09
street pay attention you need to know
03:11
when you should stop and when you should
03:14
go number five energy that warms things
03:20
these two girls are sitting in front of
03:23
a fire we talked about three types of
03:26
energy before right remember one type of
03:29
energy that warms things that makes you
03:32
warm in front of a fire or a fireplace
03:35
you feel heat you feel heat ah it keeps
03:41
you warm maybe outside it's cold it's
03:43
winter mover you want to stay inside
03:46
next to a fire to feel heat oil number
03:51
six to use heat we use heat not just to
03:55
warm our bodies but we also use heat
03:58
with food we change food right if you
04:02
have for example a steak right the steak
04:07
is not brown when you mother buys it at
04:10
the store it's pink it's red do you only
04:14
eat it
04:14
yeah well that's wrong eat that you
04:17
don't want to eat that you want to
04:18
change it you want to change it so it's
04:21
brown warm and it's juicy right that's
04:25
what you do
04:27
with heat then is you cook you cook the
04:31
food that's changing the food use heat
04:34
to change the food that is to cook are
04:38
you a cook or do you let your mom cook
04:41
all the time probably let your mom but
04:43
help her out see if you can help her to
04:45
cook okay number seven this man seems
04:51
like he's trying to hear something
04:53
something we hear right it's another
04:56
type of energy we talked about in the
04:59
beginning we talked about three kinds of
05:02
energy right this is one type this of
05:05
course is sound sound is something we
05:09
hear there are many different kinds of
05:12
sounds right there's loud sounds soft
05:16
sounds right there's long sounds and
05:20
short sounds there's all different kinds
05:23
of sounds good sounds and bad sounds
05:26
right but they are all sounds here we
05:31
have to pass a thing to someone else
05:33
this woman here is giving the little
05:36
girl a basket and I just used the word
05:39
right she's giving to give give and give
05:43
is an irregular verb so we say give gave
05:47
given one more time give gave given okay
05:53
good so that's very easy verb you give
05:56
something you do this all the time don't
05:58
you you give something to somebody else
06:01
very common thing to do number nine what
06:06
makes things happen what makes things
06:09
happen that's a good question work makes
06:12
things happen I'm sorry but around the
06:16
house you need to work if you want your
06:19
clothes to be clean well your mom has to
06:22
work she washes your clothes but you
06:24
have to pick up the clothes off your
06:27
floor put your clothes away if you want
06:30
things to happen in your room you have
06:33
to work right and that's good it's good
06:36
to work because it helps you get things
06:40
it makes things happen okay then we have
06:44
number 10 to be straight on your feet
06:47
not like this whoa
06:49
right that's lean right if I do that
06:52
that's called too lean right I'm like
06:55
this right some people like to lean
06:57
against the wall don't lean against the
06:59
wall especially not an elevator wall
07:01
right you should stand up right stand
07:05
stand stand it straight on your feet
07:08
sometimes if you're like this your
07:09
teacher or your mom might say stand up
07:12
right
07:12
don't don't lean okay stand stand stood
07:18
stood okay it's a regular verb one more
07:21
time stand stood stood okay good number
07:27
11 whoa that's what is that that looks
07:30
like ice cream no it's not ice cream
07:32
okay kinda looks like ice cream a very
07:35
bright ice cream maybe orange flavor but
07:38
that's not ice cream that is a huge ball
07:40
of light and heat it doesn't normally
07:42
look like this in fact don't look at it
07:45
because it's not good for your eyes but
07:48
if you had a special camera maybe a
07:50
telescope scientists can take pictures
07:53
of it and it looks like this it's huge
07:56
this is so big we can't imagine how big
07:59
this thing is
08:00
what is it of course I'm talking about
08:03
the Sun the Sun is a big ball of light
08:08
and heat huge ball of light and heat in
08:12
the sky and it's far away really far
08:15
away so it looks small to us but it's
08:18
really really big but even though it's
08:20
so far away it's so big we can still
08:24
feel the light and we can feel the heat
08:26
from the Sun without the Sun we couldn't
08:31
live okay so it's a very important thing
08:33
to us it's the Sun okay the next word
08:36
Wow right this guy is really driving how
08:41
is he driving he's moving quickly his
08:44
wheels aren't even on the ground that's
08:46
how fast he's going he is going so fast
08:51
his wheels are
08:53
off the ground right he just jumped but
08:55
you have to be moving fast to do that
08:57
don't drive fast it's dangerous you
09:00
don't drive anyway but don't drive fast
09:02
it's a little dangerous okay
09:04
but if you walk fast walk quickly you
09:07
can walk you can run but be careful when
09:09
you do so