# UNIT 3 Space | Lesson 7 Let's Ride into Space

- Focus on Let's learn about the first American women to go into space.
- <https://youtu.be/p9c5xnu0G1c>

- [UNIT 3 Space | Lesson 7 Let's Ride into Space](#unit-3-space--lesson-7-lets-ride-into-space)
  - [un-toggle timestamps transcript](#un-toggle-timestamps-transcript)
  - [toggle timestamps transcript](#toggle-timestamps-transcript)

## un-toggle timestamps transcript

[Music]
hello everyone how are you today welcome
back to reading for vocabulary
I'm Brian Stewart we're looking at
lesson seven now right let's ride into
space so the next few lessons we're
going to be talking about space right
space outer space where aliens and
different planets are right
well maybe aliens in this lesson we're
going to focus on let's learn about the
first American woman to go into space
who was the first American woman to go
into space we'll find out in this lesson
let's start first though with what do
astronauts do in space okay so we're
talking about the first woman astronaut
but first of all what is an astronaut
right an astronaut is somebody who goes
into space and what do they do in space
well we can see a couple of pictures
here this astronaut here is next to a
satellites right so this astronaut is
putting a satellite
in space and that's what that astronaut
is whoa that astronaut is doing there
let me see if I get home it's very
technical like putting in satellite in
space okay so this astronaut is floating
around right kind of looks like a very
high-tech teddy bear right give him a
hug
but this astronaut is floating in space
right he or she is putting a satellite a
satellite in space
what is this astronaut doing this is
another thing that astronauts do they
explore they explore new worlds right
that's really exciting isn't it new
worlds imagine there are many new worlds
out there in space and astronauts will
go there and they will look around
what's on that world what what's there
very exciting very interesting science
so maybe you want to be an astronaut
someday if you are then some some of the
jobs that you can do putting satellites
into space are really exciting exploring
new worlds okay let's begin with our
vocabulary of course we already talked
about this one a little bit someone who
flies through space of course we know
that we just talked about that it's an
astronaut now that's a little difficult
to pronounce maybe let's break it down
astronaut astronaut okay so very quickly
astronaut astronaut that is a person who
flies through space right there like in
an airplane but they're not going
through air they're going through space
okay that's the difference between an
astronaut and a pilot a pilot is someone
who flies a plane through air but an
astronaut goes into space that's
important to remember for later okay
next one number two what's going on
there's many dogs right do you like dogs
right
there are many dogs here and they are
practicing and learning what are they
doing we can say they are training
training to train to Train is to
practice and learn something now that's
interesting what is the difference
between teach right right now I am
teaching you guys right I am giving you
knowledge knowledge so I'm giving you
knowledge I'm teaching you English but
can you teach a dog a language you can't
give a dog knowledge you have to train
the dog so train right train means to do
something to teach somebody how to do
something right like a skill a skill
when you learn a skill that is training
okay so many jobs require different
skills when you learn how to do
something how to do right we can put how
here how to do something then you are
training you are learning a skill but
when you're just learning knowledge
facts and and things like language or
math things like that that's teaching so
the difference is right between training
and teaching is teaching is just giving
somebody knowledge but training is
teaching somebody how to do something
okay of course it's very common to say
I'm going to teach my dog some tricks
yes many people say that but really
specifically you're training the dog how
to do something okay so that's very
important especially for people who are
learning jobs if they have to learn a
skill for the job they need training
okay let's continue number three we
talked about this already right what was
the first astronaut doing before the
first astronaut was putting a machine
that goes around the earth into space
right we said
was that that was a satellite satellite
that's a little difficult to pronounce
right how many sounds satellite
satellite satellite okay so very quickly
satellite as satellite is a machine that
goes around the earth it's a machine
what does it do well most satellites
allow us to communicate with each other
many TV stations use satellites to reach
all over the world when you use your
cell phone and you call somebody in
another country you're probably using a
satellite your signal goes all the way
up blink and then down to the earth
again okay so satellites are very
important for our modern life oh yeah so
a machine that goes around the earth is
a satellite let's continue
number four something you read to find
out news
what is this maybe do you read this
anymore or do you just go on the
internet that's a good question right so
but you can still find these right on
the streets you know in the subway you
can see places where they sell these and
what are they called of course they're
called a news paper newspaper now more
and more people are getting their news
on the Internet
that's true but there's still something
called a news paper it's something you
read to find out the news and this is an
interesting newspaper big news and this
guy is very happy or crazy I don't know
but anyway it's newspaper okay next one
five to read and learn now to read and
learn we talked about teaching and
training but this is the the opposite
side right this is to study when you are
being taught something right and
afterwards you know you sit and you
study you read a book you read and you
learn especially by yourself
many students study at home homework is
a way that you can study by yourself of
course you also study in class with a
teacher when you
and you learned something you study
study something number six a spaceship
with wings wow this is really cool huh
that's a really cool spaceship that of
course is called the Space Shuttle Space
Shuttle and it used to be used by NASA
but NASA doesn't use space shuttles
anymore too bad okay
but anyway let's practice pronunciation
space that's easy space then the next
one shut tole shut tall so put them
together Space Shuttle a spaceship with
wings it can fly into space it can also
land by itself okay next one seven a
round body that travels around the Sun
and of course they're not so close that
would be very dangerous but these are
round bodies we know this one right
that's the the one that we live on right
what is it called it is called a planet
of course our planet is of course called
the earth right the earth but there are
many other planets as you know around
our Sun right there's Mercury Venus then
Earth Mars then we have Jupiter Saturn
Uranus and Neptune
some people say Pluto some people say no
Pluto's not a planet okay but it's a
round body that travels around the Sun
that is all of them you can say it is a
planet okay next one eight traveling
through the air to travel through the
air
of course we if you're on an airplane
you are on a flight right there are many
flights that you can take every day
there's a flight to America there is a
flight to Australia there is a flight to
China right so traveling through the air
is to take flight now that may be a
little hard to pronounce let's practice
light it's once one sound one syllable
flight flight but
I'll Oh Oh light the light so be
careful with the F and the ol ba and O
flight okay good let's continue nine
very good right very good
your pronunciation so far I hope has
been very good it has been wonderful
hasn't it
wonderful I hope your pronunciation has
been wonderful very good guys okay let's
continue ten wow this is very
interesting right the area outside the
earth so of course we talked about the
planet we saw our earth but anywhere
outside right not on the earth outside
the earth there's a lot of what what do
we call it we call it space a lot of
space outside the earth right we're just
so very small in our universe okay
space how do we pronounce it spoke right
put it together space space space okay
so when we talk about being off the
earth or outside the earth we're talking
about space okay next one studying and
learning about how everything works so
you're studying and you're learning how
do things work so what are you doing
you're studying science science is the
knowledge about how things work it's
anything you look at anything why is the
sky blue how does this television
monitor work right why do I need to eat
three times a day right
why right when we study all these things
about the world around us right how
everything works that is science and
there are many different fields of
science right geology about the earth
chemistry about chemicals biology about
life there's so many things we want to
know about our world then we study
science to find the answers okay next
one twelve here's a cute doggy right he
looks hungry right give me some food
okay next one to be in want of something
to be in want of something you need it
right this doggy needs food okay if you
need knowledge right if you want to
learn something you need knowledge right
if you want to play you need a toy or a
game right to be and want if you want
something then you think that you need
it you don't always need it though right
just because you want it need is is also
very important that you need something
for life for example if the dog doesn't
get food the dog will die so the dog
needs food
it needs water it needs it needs to play
these are the things we need in life so
what is just you know a little bit it's
not that important yeah we want things
but then need is more important those
are the things we need to live okay next
one 13 to choose to choose means to pick
pick and choose is the same meaning to
pick to choose you have many sandwiches
different kind of sandwiches
what sandwich do you want I'll choose
this one a ham and cheese I'll pick this
one so you pick one thing out of many
okay to pick something number 14 to get
new ideas we're back to these kids right
not science now that's not science but
to get new ideas is to learn when you
study and you learn knowledge right
you're getting new ideas you're learning
knowledge you're getting new ideas in
your head so you are learning to learn
ok next one number 15 surrounding
something if you surround something what
do we say for that we say it is around
something so for example all these
people are around the earth they are
around the earth
there are many satellites around the
earth they surround something that's so
many satellites right now around the
earth that's how we can use our
cellphones so are round or round to
surround something okay and the last one
we have a photograph right this is an
old-style photograph it looks like a
Polaroid right we say it is a picture
picture and photograph same meaning take
a photograph take a picture we say take
take a photograph and you can just say
take a photo you don't have to say
photograph you can but we can say just
take a photo or take a picture so can I
take your picture
right I got your picture right can I
take your picture can I take your photo
same thing okay that was a lot of
vocabulary wasn't it wow so many new
words let's see how well you remember
those words with this exercise here
we're going to use the words from the
box to answer each riddle remember a
riddle a riddle gives you clues or hints
right we look at the clue this will be
the clue or we can also say it's a hint
right a clue or a hint is something that
describes something but it doesn't tell
you what it is it's a clue or a hint
some information that helps you find the
answer information that helps you find
the answer that's a clue or a hint okay
and sometimes we can find clues or hints
in the questions too let's take a look
anyway these are our eight words right
we need to find these words these words
are the answers to each riddle let's go
over the words very quickly astronaut
astronauts
training training study study Space
Shuttle Space Shuttle satellite
satellite planets planets next flight
flight right remember ba la flight okay
newspaper newspaper okay good so those
are our words we need to use these words
to answer these riddles so first one I
fly through space
that's our clue or the hint I fly
through space Who am I who means a
person right a person so which word up
here is a person who flies through space
which one well if we look at these words
we only see one word that describes a
person and that's this word over here
astronaut and what does an astronaut do
an astronaut flies through space right
we talked about that okay so of course
the answer here I fly through space
Who am I an astronaut I am an astronaut
remember say n an astronaut because of a
I am an astronaut okay next one number
two I'm a machine so now we're looking
for you know some type of machine I'm a
machine I take pictures in space so a
machine that's in space and it goes
around the earth right what am I so what
is a machine that takes pictures in
space and you know it goes around the
earth as it takes pictures which one is
it well of course we talked about that
before
it would be this one over here right it
would be a satellite so I'm a machine a
satellite is a machine I take pictures
in space satellites take pictures in
space why
am i I'm a satellite I'm a satellite
okay good
number three we so we're talking about
more than one we're talking about plural
right not one but plural probably has an
S on the end okay of the word we are
very large we go around the Sun okay so
think about that very large things that
go around the Sun which one could it be
well do satellites go around the Sun no
satellites go around the earth right
they go around the Sun but they go
around the earth the earth goes around
the Sun but the earth what is the earth
right the earth is one of these things
the earth is a planet isn't it and as I
said before there are many planets so
planet is the word we're looking for and
there's our s right
s we plural okay
so what are we we are planets we are
planets that's the answer okay number
four do you like to fly yes I like to
fly oh cool that's the hint okay wait a
minute do you like to fly I'm in the act
oh I'm the act of flying I'm the act of
flying so the act of flying we talked
about that right
what am i what is the act of flying
among these words here among these words
which is the act of flying of course
we're looking for this word here flight
flight is the act of flying what am i I
am flight MA that's the answer to that
riddle number four let's move on we have
number five you are not ready yet
that's an interesting clue what is that
about you have to you have much to learn
so what must you get okay so you're not
ready maybe you're not ready to do
something right maybe you're not ready
to perform some type of skill right
you're not ready
yet because you have much to learn still
you still have a lot to learn you still
need to know some things and to practice
doing some things what must you get what
must you get well if we take a look at
this
you must get more training right so if
you're not ready to do something yet for
example you're not ready to go scuba
diving you're not ready to go hang
gliding cool right you're not ready to
go mountain climbing yet you still need
to learn more things about these things
so what must you get you must get more
training when you get more training then
you can do those things ok next one
number six what's new I don't know
what's new with you oh I'm sorry
no that's the part of the clue right ok
what's new what's up how are you doing
right ok anyway what's new what happened
read me ah read me that's the clue read
me to find out what happened ok so if
you want to know what's new in the world
what happened yesterday
or to this morning right you have to
read something to find out what am i of
course we know that right if you read
something that has news in it right the
story about what happened then we're
looking for the news paper we read the
paper it gives us the news
it is newspaper what am I I am a news
paper I am a newspaper ok next one
number seven I can take you to space Wow
really
that's cool I have wings ok what so
we're looking for an object right what
am I even though it says I were
imagining that the object can talk many
riddles do
this okay it's a common technique of
riddles so what am i I can take you to
space and I have wings so what can take
us to space
what has wings aha over here Space
Shuttle right the Space Shuttle can fly
us into space the Space Shuttle has
wings so the answer is the Space Shuttle
Space Shuttle okay that is the answer I
am a space shuttle okay eight
Sally is very smart good for Sally right
what did she do in school what did she
do in school
to get so smart how did she get so smart
what did she do what should you do if
you want to be smart right what should
you do here it is
study you should study if you want to be
smart you should study and you will be
smart like Sally okay okay well that
wraps it up for the vocabulary section
of this lecture let's take a short break
we'll come back and take a look at the
reading don't go away
welcome back after the break are you
ready to learn about America's first
woman astronaut that's what the reading
passage is about but you know it's also
about something else it's about
following your dream and working hard
let's take a look as a child Sally Ride
Sally Ride wanted to be an astronaut it
was her dream to fly through space so we
can see in these two sentences they're
talking about a childhood dream of Sally
Ride this is Sally Ride here now as a
child she wanted to be an astronaut what
do you want to be when you grow up many
of you have different answers some
people might say doctor or lawyer
or maybe even astronaut do any of you
want to be an astronaut that is your
dream it was her dream to fly through
space fly through space
that's what astronauts do astronauts fly
through space do you dream that maybe
one day you can fly through space maybe
your dream is to be an astronaut okay
well that's what we're talking about
here Sally Ride her dream was to be an
astronaut however there was just one
problem there was a problem that maybe
was hard for her about her dream she
wanted to be an astronaut but there was
a problem
what was the problem at that time at
that time this is a long time ago you
can see Sally Ride her hairstyle is a
bit old-fashioned this is a several
decades ago right but at that time all
the astronauts in America were men all
of them were men no women so Sally Ride
was like okay right she was how can I be
an astronaut all the astronauts are men
I'm a woman or I will be a woman did she
give up no she didn't give up and that's
good right so when Sally grew up as she
grew up she studied science she didn't
get rid of her dream she thought okay
I'm a woman so what I will still be an
astronaut so she studied science
astronauts need to know a lot of science
for their job so she studied science she
wanted to learn all about outer space we
talked about space before space is the
area outside the earth we say outer
space because really there's two kinds
of space right there's space in this
room right space in this room is room I
can move around there's a lot of space
but when I say outer space I mean
outside the earth right away from the
earth and you know different planets
different stars different galaxies right
very interesting stuff she wanted to
learn all about outer space that's the
area of science that she studied okay
before I said there are many different
areas in science
she studied about outer space she
studied the planets like Earth okay
Sally also learned about the Stars so
when she studied about outer space
she studied about the planets you know
about Venus about Mars about mercury she
also studied about the stars not just
the Sun which is our star but on many
other stars in outer space
she studied about those things then
something wonderful happened something
wonderful happened something great
normal no much oil right Sally read in
the newspaper that new astronauts were
needed so the government needed new
astronauts they wanted to choose her to
get new astronauts so they put an
article in the newspaper and that's
where Sally read in the newspaper about
that need the government needs new
astronauts they put an article in the
newspaper Sally
read the article in the newspaper okay
so what did she do she read the
newspaper then then she wrote a letter
and was picked was picked right she was
picked who picked her NASA picked her
right NASA NASA picked
Sally that's great right but that's what
it means was picked who picked her it
doesn't say because that's passive right
this is the answer NASA picked her
that's active voice NASA picked Sally
she was picked okay
so NASA chose Sally to be a new
astronaut wonderful that's even more
wonderful right it's not easy to be an
astronaut okay she was picked to be an
astronaut but remember it's not easy
it's not easy to be an astronaut it's of
course means it is and it when we're
talking about some situation it's very
common for example it's not easy to
study right I'm sorry it's true it's not
easy to study it's not easy to climb a
mountain right it's not easy to be an
astronaut this is a very common
expression it is not easy to do
something it means it's difficult hinder
all right it's hard okay Sally knew it
would be hard work hard work right you
have to put a lot of effort into the
work right it's hard work to do
something she had many weeks of training
training because she needs skills
astronauts need to know how to do many
things they need many skills they do a
lot of training during training during
the training while the training was
going on during training Sally learned
about the space shuttle so part of her
training is to learn about the Space
Shuttle how it works what to do okay she
also learned what to do training during
the flight into space so when she flew
into space she also learned what to do
look at this picture is she laying down
no in outer space there's no gravity no
gravity no gravity no gravity v i-- t y
no gravity that means whoa I'd float
away right there's gravity keeping me
down right now
otherwise if there's no gravity I would
just float up into this up into the air
that's what she's doing she's kind of
floating see she's here like this and
another person is kind of going like
that right looks like he's going up but
there's no gravity right so she's flying
into space she learned what to do during
the flight in space
okay at last at last means finally at
the finish okay at the finish at last
Sally finished her training and was
ready so at last finally she finished
her training then she's ready she flew
on the space shuttle Challenger the
space shuttles name this is the name of
the space shuttle every space shuttle
had a different name there were several
many space shuttles and the name of her
Space Shuttle was the Challenger okay
that was her first space shuttle while
in space she helped put out satellites
remember that picture we saw way back at
the beginning of this lesson when I said
what do astronauts do they put
satellites into space that's what she
was doing maybe that was her in the
picture we're not sure because she was
wearing that suit right okay she helped
put out satellites these machines these
machines these machines refers back to
satellites so satellites go around the
earth and take pictures satellites go
around the earth and take pictures okay
Sally became the first American woman to
go into space
didn't give up her dream she did not
give up remember at the beginning she
said there was a problem all the merit
all the astronauts in America were men
she didn't give up
she studied science she trained hard so
she became the first American woman to
go into space right
many people think she is special because
of this so many people think oh wow
she's special she's the first woman yay
great really good but but all Sally
cares about is that her dream came true
she doesn't care about being special
she doesn't think oh it's great you know
the first woman in space she doesn't
care about that what's more important to
her what is more important is that her
dream came true more important that her
dream came true that's most important to
Sally she's not worried about oh I'm a
woman you know there's another man she's
not worried about that she's thinks most
importantly my dream came true and she
didn't let the circumstances stop her
from making her dream come true make her
dream make your dream make your dream
come true that's a good expression right
make your dream come true came true so
when your dream is realized you actually
you get your dream your dream came true
okay that's the good expression that's
how to say it in English my dream came
true I hope your dreams come true okay
let's move on to the comprehension
questions okay again number one this
story is about what is the whole story
about if you think about just one
subject that describes this entire story
what is it what are the choices a
training be a little girl
see science ordy a female astronaut well
if we think about this story what was
this story about this story was about
Sally Ride wasn't it it was about Sally
Ride and why is Sally Ride important
because she was the first American
female astronaut what is that that looks
like number D write letter D okay so
Sally Ride is a female astronaut that's
what the story is about okay sure
we talked about training a little bit
right Sally Ride had to train to become
a female astronaut sure she was a little
girl at the beginning of the story but
the entire story was not about her
childhood it was about her whole life
see science yes she studied science the
story mentioned science but it was about
Sally Ride who studied science in order
to become a female astronaut so this
whole story all of these things are
connected to D the whole story is about
D a female astronaut that's the answer
okay number two it was Sally's dream
what was her dream what did she dream
what did she want to do a fly airplanes
did Sally want to fly airplanes become a
pilot no she didn't want to fly
airplanes right she wanted to be
something else she wanted to go more
further away than pilots do okay B be a
scientist well Sally did study science
that's true but her dream wasn't to
become a scientist
she studied science in order to use her
knowledge to be something else but not a
scientist she didn't want to be a
scientist C fly through space Sally as
the beginning of the story said she
wanted to be an astronaut because she
wanted to fly through
face so it was Sally's dream to fly
through space that's the correct answer
that's true right so that's what we got
there okay
to read the newspaper well fly through
space that's the answer
it was Sally's dream to fly through
space D it was Sally's dream to read the
newspaper it was her dream to read the
newspaper that's kind of a silly dream
right I hope you don't have a dream
that's so easy just pick up the
newspaper and read it that's not a dream
just do it all right
that's very silly so obviously that's
not correct the right answer is C it was
Sally's dream to fly through space okay
number three Sally
Beebe for many weeks to be an astronaut
what did she do did she study did she
train did she fly did she sleep well the
story said that she had to learn how to
do many things right and that means that
she trained for many weeks to be an
astronaut not studied she studied for
many years and she studied science for
many years to become an astronaut the
story specifically said that she trained
for many weeks to be an astronaut she
flew for many weeks to be an astronaut
no that's not correct
she slept that's crazy wouldn't that be
nice though if you just sleep I'll just
go to sleep for two weeks and I'll wake
up I'm an astronaut we can't do that I'm
sorry but it's not exciting it's better
to Train that's more exciting sleeping
is boring right okay so there correct
answer Sally trained for many weeks to
be an astronaut that is the correct
answer okay number four Sally Ride was
what was she okay let's take a look
Sally Ride was a great teacher the only
female astronaut see the first female
pilot Dee the first American female
astronaut okay so which sentence is true
or the best sentence about Sally Ride
let's take a look
she was a great teacher no the article
the passage didn't mention anything
about Sally teaching anybody so that's
not right be the only female astronaut
be careful here it says the only did the
article say that there was no other
female astronauts ever it didn't say
that the article was about Sally Ride
being the first female astronaut maybe
other females became astronauts after
her that's possible but the story didn't
say it so it's not about the only female
astronaut right it's about the first
female astronauts right so only is not
correct we can't use B see the foe here
we have first but when this word is a
problem right the first female pilot now
it's not a pilot she didn't want to it
wasn't her dream to become a pilot so
that's not right because of this word
here it's actually the first female
astronaut and that's what we find down
here the first we got first and we have
astronaut and of course female so the
first female astronaut that is what
Sally Ride was okay so the answer of
course is D Sally Ride was the first
American female astronaut that is the
answer to that question okay good okay
let's come to our conclusion here this
is a picture again of Sally Ride this
she is the first American female
astronaut and what does she have to say
what are some things that she would say
to us well first of all she would say I
wanted to be an astronaut so that was
her dream when she was a child okay
she might also say I studied all about
science so she had a dream this is her
dream how did she make her dream come
true first she studied all about outer
space planets and other Suns our stars
right she wrote a letter to the
newspaper
and was picked for a new astronaut she
right remember the story in the
newspaper she saw it so she wrote a
letter and she was picked to be a new
astronaut great wonderful news finally
she can say I finished training so she
trained to be an astronaut and flew on
the space shuttle Challenger okay so her
dream came true she became an astronaut
and she flew on the space shuttle which
was named Challenger okay
very inspiring story I hope so we can
learn many things about astronauts but
we can also learn very important that
your dreams can come true if you work
hard and you have some wonderful news
then you can do what you want to do your
dream can come true and I hope your
dreams do come true
okay well that wraps it up for this
lesson we'll see you next time
take care everybody

## toggle timestamps transcript

00:00
[Music]
00:05
hello everyone how are you today welcome
00:09
back to reading for vocabulary
00:11
I'm Brian Stewart we're looking at
00:14
lesson seven now right let's ride into
00:17
space so the next few lessons we're
00:20
going to be talking about space right
00:23
space outer space where aliens and
00:26
different planets are right
00:28
well maybe aliens in this lesson we're
00:31
going to focus on let's learn about the
00:34
first American woman to go into space
00:38
who was the first American woman to go
00:42
into space we'll find out in this lesson
00:45
let's start first though with what do
00:48
astronauts do in space okay so we're
00:52
talking about the first woman astronaut
00:54
but first of all what is an astronaut
00:57
right an astronaut is somebody who goes
01:00
into space and what do they do in space
01:03
well we can see a couple of pictures
01:05
here this astronaut here is next to a
01:09
satellites right so this astronaut is
01:13
putting a satellite
01:23
in space and that's what that astronaut
01:26
is whoa that astronaut is doing there
01:30
let me see if I get home it's very
01:33
technical like putting in satellite in
01:35
space okay so this astronaut is floating
01:39
around right kind of looks like a very
01:41
high-tech teddy bear right give him a
01:43
hug
01:44
but this astronaut is floating in space
01:46
right he or she is putting a satellite a
01:50
satellite in space
01:53
what is this astronaut doing this is
01:56
another thing that astronauts do they
02:00
explore they explore new worlds right
02:09
that's really exciting isn't it new
02:12
worlds imagine there are many new worlds
02:15
out there in space and astronauts will
02:18
go there and they will look around
02:20
what's on that world what what's there
02:24
very exciting very interesting science
02:27
so maybe you want to be an astronaut
02:29
someday if you are then some some of the
02:32
jobs that you can do putting satellites
02:35
into space are really exciting exploring
02:38
new worlds okay let's begin with our
02:41
vocabulary of course we already talked
02:43
about this one a little bit someone who
02:46
flies through space of course we know
02:48
that we just talked about that it's an
02:51
astronaut now that's a little difficult
02:54
to pronounce maybe let's break it down
02:58
astronaut astronaut okay so very quickly
03:03
astronaut astronaut that is a person who
03:07
flies through space right there like in
03:11
an airplane but they're not going
03:13
through air they're going through space
03:15
okay that's the difference between an
03:18
astronaut and a pilot a pilot is someone
03:21
who flies a plane through air but an
03:24
astronaut goes into space that's
03:27
important to remember for later okay
03:29
next one number two what's going on
03:32
there's many dogs right do you like dogs
03:35
right
03:36
there are many dogs here and they are
03:38
practicing and learning what are they
03:40
doing we can say they are training
03:46
training to train to Train is to
03:50
practice and learn something now that's
03:52
interesting what is the difference
03:54
between teach right right now I am
03:59
teaching you guys right I am giving you
04:02
knowledge knowledge so I'm giving you
04:09
knowledge I'm teaching you English but
04:12
can you teach a dog a language you can't
04:15
give a dog knowledge you have to train
04:18
the dog so train right train means to do
04:25
something to teach somebody how to do
04:29
something right like a skill a skill
04:35
when you learn a skill that is training
04:39
okay so many jobs require different
04:42
skills when you learn how to do
04:45
something how to do right we can put how
04:49
here how to do something then you are
04:53
training you are learning a skill but
04:55
when you're just learning knowledge
04:56
facts and and things like language or
04:59
math things like that that's teaching so
05:02
the difference is right between training
05:05
and teaching is teaching is just giving
05:08
somebody knowledge but training is
05:10
teaching somebody how to do something
05:14
okay of course it's very common to say
05:17
I'm going to teach my dog some tricks
05:20
yes many people say that but really
05:23
specifically you're training the dog how
05:26
to do something okay so that's very
05:28
important especially for people who are
05:30
learning jobs if they have to learn a
05:32
skill for the job they need training
05:34
okay let's continue number three we
05:38
talked about this already right what was
05:41
the first astronaut doing before the
05:43
first astronaut was putting a machine
05:45
that goes around the earth into space
05:48
right we said
05:50
was that that was a satellite satellite
05:54
that's a little difficult to pronounce
05:55
right how many sounds satellite
05:59
satellite satellite okay so very quickly
06:03
satellite as satellite is a machine that
06:06
goes around the earth it's a machine
06:08
what does it do well most satellites
06:11
allow us to communicate with each other
06:15
many TV stations use satellites to reach
06:20
all over the world when you use your
06:22
cell phone and you call somebody in
06:25
another country you're probably using a
06:28
satellite your signal goes all the way
06:30
up blink and then down to the earth
06:33
again okay so satellites are very
06:35
important for our modern life oh yeah so
06:39
a machine that goes around the earth is
06:41
a satellite let's continue
06:44
number four something you read to find
06:47
out news
06:48
what is this maybe do you read this
06:50
anymore or do you just go on the
06:52
internet that's a good question right so
06:54
but you can still find these right on
06:57
the streets you know in the subway you
07:00
can see places where they sell these and
07:03
what are they called of course they're
07:04
called a news paper newspaper now more
07:09
and more people are getting their news
07:11
on the Internet
07:12
that's true but there's still something
07:14
called a news paper it's something you
07:17
read to find out the news and this is an
07:20
interesting newspaper big news and this
07:23
guy is very happy or crazy I don't know
07:26
but anyway it's newspaper okay next one
07:30
five to read and learn now to read and
07:34
learn we talked about teaching and
07:35
training but this is the the opposite
07:38
side right this is to study when you are
07:42
being taught something right and
07:45
afterwards you know you sit and you
07:48
study you read a book you read and you
07:51
learn especially by yourself
07:53
many students study at home homework is
07:57
a way that you can study by yourself of
07:59
course you also study in class with a
08:02
teacher when you
08:03
and you learned something you study
08:06
study something number six a spaceship
08:11
with wings wow this is really cool huh
08:14
that's a really cool spaceship that of
08:17
course is called the Space Shuttle Space
08:20
Shuttle and it used to be used by NASA
08:26
but NASA doesn't use space shuttles
08:28
anymore too bad okay
08:30
but anyway let's practice pronunciation
08:33
space that's easy space then the next
08:37
one shut tole shut tall so put them
08:42
together Space Shuttle a spaceship with
08:46
wings it can fly into space it can also
08:50
land by itself okay next one seven a
08:54
round body that travels around the Sun
08:57
and of course they're not so close that
08:59
would be very dangerous but these are
09:02
round bodies we know this one right
09:03
that's the the one that we live on right
09:06
what is it called it is called a planet
09:09
of course our planet is of course called
09:13
the earth right the earth but there are
09:17
many other planets as you know around
09:21
our Sun right there's Mercury Venus then
09:24
Earth Mars then we have Jupiter Saturn
09:26
Uranus and Neptune
09:28
some people say Pluto some people say no
09:31
Pluto's not a planet okay but it's a
09:33
round body that travels around the Sun
09:36
that is all of them you can say it is a
09:39
planet okay next one eight traveling
09:43
through the air to travel through the
09:45
air
09:45
of course we if you're on an airplane
09:48
you are on a flight right there are many
09:52
flights that you can take every day
09:54
there's a flight to America there is a
09:57
flight to Australia there is a flight to
10:00
China right so traveling through the air
10:03
is to take flight now that may be a
10:07
little hard to pronounce let's practice
10:09
light it's once one sound one syllable
10:14
flight flight but
10:17
I'll Oh Oh light the light so be
10:23
careful with the F and the ol ba and O
10:28
flight okay good let's continue nine
10:33
very good right very good
10:36
your pronunciation so far I hope has
10:38
been very good it has been wonderful
10:41
hasn't it
10:43
wonderful I hope your pronunciation has
10:46
been wonderful very good guys okay let's
10:48
continue ten wow this is very
10:51
interesting right the area outside the
10:55
earth so of course we talked about the
10:57
planet we saw our earth but anywhere
11:00
outside right not on the earth outside
11:03
the earth there's a lot of what what do
11:06
we call it we call it space a lot of
11:10
space outside the earth right we're just
11:13
so very small in our universe okay
11:16
space how do we pronounce it spoke right
11:20
put it together space space space okay
11:26
so when we talk about being off the
11:28
earth or outside the earth we're talking
11:31
about space okay next one studying and
11:36
learning about how everything works so
11:39
you're studying and you're learning how
11:41
do things work so what are you doing
11:43
you're studying science science is the
11:49
knowledge about how things work it's
11:51
anything you look at anything why is the
11:55
sky blue how does this television
11:58
monitor work right why do I need to eat
12:03
three times a day right
12:05
why right when we study all these things
12:09
about the world around us right how
12:13
everything works that is science and
12:15
there are many different fields of
12:18
science right geology about the earth
12:21
chemistry about chemicals biology about
12:25
life there's so many things we want to
12:29
know about our world then we study
12:32
science to find the answers okay next
12:36
one twelve here's a cute doggy right he
12:40
looks hungry right give me some food
12:41
okay next one to be in want of something
12:45
to be in want of something you need it
12:48
right this doggy needs food okay if you
12:53
need knowledge right if you want to
12:56
learn something you need knowledge right
12:58
if you want to play you need a toy or a
13:02
game right to be and want if you want
13:05
something then you think that you need
13:08
it you don't always need it though right
13:10
just because you want it need is is also
13:13
very important that you need something
13:15
for life for example if the dog doesn't
13:19
get food the dog will die so the dog
13:22
needs food
13:23
it needs water it needs it needs to play
13:27
these are the things we need in life so
13:30
what is just you know a little bit it's
13:32
not that important yeah we want things
13:35
but then need is more important those
13:37
are the things we need to live okay next
13:40
one 13 to choose to choose means to pick
13:46
pick and choose is the same meaning to
13:50
pick to choose you have many sandwiches
13:53
different kind of sandwiches
13:55
what sandwich do you want I'll choose
13:57
this one a ham and cheese I'll pick this
14:00
one so you pick one thing out of many
14:04
okay to pick something number 14 to get
14:08
new ideas we're back to these kids right
14:11
not science now that's not science but
14:13
to get new ideas is to learn when you
14:17
study and you learn knowledge right
14:19
you're getting new ideas you're learning
14:22
knowledge you're getting new ideas in
14:25
your head so you are learning to learn
14:29
ok next one number 15 surrounding
14:33
something if you surround something what
14:36
do we say for that we say it is around
14:40
something so for example all these
14:44
people are around the earth they are
14:46
around the earth
14:49
there are many satellites around the
14:51
earth they surround something that's so
14:54
many satellites right now around the
14:56
earth that's how we can use our
14:58
cellphones so are round or round to
15:02
surround something okay and the last one
15:05
we have a photograph right this is an
15:07
old-style photograph it looks like a
15:09
Polaroid right we say it is a picture
15:13
picture and photograph same meaning take
15:17
a photograph take a picture we say take
15:21
take a photograph and you can just say
15:27
take a photo you don't have to say
15:30
photograph you can but we can say just
15:33
take a photo or take a picture so can I
15:38
take your picture
15:40
right I got your picture right can I
15:43
take your picture can I take your photo
15:45
same thing okay that was a lot of
15:49
vocabulary wasn't it wow so many new
15:52
words let's see how well you remember
15:55
those words with this exercise here
15:58
we're going to use the words from the
16:01
box to answer each riddle remember a
16:04
riddle a riddle gives you clues or hints
16:08
right we look at the clue this will be
16:11
the clue or we can also say it's a hint
16:15
right a clue or a hint is something that
16:20
describes something but it doesn't tell
16:23
you what it is it's a clue or a hint
16:26
some information that helps you find the
16:30
answer information that helps you find
16:33
the answer that's a clue or a hint okay
16:38
and sometimes we can find clues or hints
16:40
in the questions too let's take a look
16:42
anyway these are our eight words right
16:45
we need to find these words these words
16:47
are the answers to each riddle let's go
16:51
over the words very quickly astronaut
16:54
astronauts
16:56
training training study study Space
17:02
Shuttle Space Shuttle satellite
17:07
satellite planets planets next flight
17:14
flight right remember ba la flight okay
17:20
newspaper newspaper okay good so those
17:25
are our words we need to use these words
17:27
to answer these riddles so first one I
17:31
fly through space
17:33
that's our clue or the hint I fly
17:36
through space Who am I who means a
17:42
person right a person so which word up
17:47
here is a person who flies through space
17:50
which one well if we look at these words
17:53
we only see one word that describes a
17:57
person and that's this word over here
17:59
astronaut and what does an astronaut do
18:03
an astronaut flies through space right
18:07
we talked about that okay so of course
18:09
the answer here I fly through space
18:12
Who am I an astronaut I am an astronaut
18:17
remember say n an astronaut because of a
18:22
I am an astronaut okay next one number
18:26
two I'm a machine so now we're looking
18:30
for you know some type of machine I'm a
18:32
machine I take pictures in space so a
18:37
machine that's in space and it goes
18:39
around the earth right what am I so what
18:44
is a machine that takes pictures in
18:47
space and you know it goes around the
18:50
earth as it takes pictures which one is
18:52
it well of course we talked about that
18:55
before
18:55
it would be this one over here right it
18:58
would be a satellite so I'm a machine a
19:01
satellite is a machine I take pictures
19:04
in space satellites take pictures in
19:07
space why
19:09
am i I'm a satellite I'm a satellite
19:13
okay good
19:15
number three we so we're talking about
19:19
more than one we're talking about plural
19:22
right not one but plural probably has an
19:25
S on the end okay of the word we are
19:29
very large we go around the Sun okay so
19:34
think about that very large things that
19:37
go around the Sun which one could it be
19:41
well do satellites go around the Sun no
19:44
satellites go around the earth right
19:46
they go around the Sun but they go
19:48
around the earth the earth goes around
19:49
the Sun but the earth what is the earth
19:52
right the earth is one of these things
19:55
the earth is a planet isn't it and as I
19:58
said before there are many planets so
20:02
planet is the word we're looking for and
20:04
there's our s right
20:05
s we plural okay
20:08
so what are we we are planets we are
20:13
planets that's the answer okay number
20:17
four do you like to fly yes I like to
20:20
fly oh cool that's the hint okay wait a
20:22
minute do you like to fly I'm in the act
20:26
oh I'm the act of flying I'm the act of
20:30
flying so the act of flying we talked
20:34
about that right
20:34
what am i what is the act of flying
20:37
among these words here among these words
20:41
which is the act of flying of course
20:44
we're looking for this word here flight
20:46
flight is the act of flying what am i I
20:50
am flight MA that's the answer to that
20:54
riddle number four let's move on we have
20:57
number five you are not ready yet
21:01
that's an interesting clue what is that
21:03
about you have to you have much to learn
21:07
so what must you get okay so you're not
21:12
ready maybe you're not ready to do
21:14
something right maybe you're not ready
21:16
to perform some type of skill right
21:20
you're not ready
21:22
yet because you have much to learn still
21:26
you still have a lot to learn you still
21:30
need to know some things and to practice
21:34
doing some things what must you get what
21:39
must you get well if we take a look at
21:41
this
21:42
you must get more training right so if
21:46
you're not ready to do something yet for
21:48
example you're not ready to go scuba
21:51
diving you're not ready to go hang
21:55
gliding cool right you're not ready to
21:58
go mountain climbing yet you still need
22:02
to learn more things about these things
22:06
so what must you get you must get more
22:08
training when you get more training then
22:12
you can do those things ok next one
22:15
number six what's new I don't know
22:18
what's new with you oh I'm sorry
22:19
no that's the part of the clue right ok
22:22
what's new what's up how are you doing
22:23
right ok anyway what's new what happened
22:27
read me ah read me that's the clue read
22:32
me to find out what happened ok so if
22:36
you want to know what's new in the world
22:39
what happened yesterday
22:41
or to this morning right you have to
22:46
read something to find out what am i of
22:49
course we know that right if you read
22:52
something that has news in it right the
22:56
story about what happened then we're
22:58
looking for the news paper we read the
23:02
paper it gives us the news
23:05
it is newspaper what am I I am a news
23:10
paper I am a newspaper ok next one
23:15
number seven I can take you to space Wow
23:20
really
23:21
that's cool I have wings ok what so
23:25
we're looking for an object right what
23:28
am I even though it says I were
23:31
imagining that the object can talk many
23:34
riddles do
23:35
this okay it's a common technique of
23:38
riddles so what am i I can take you to
23:41
space and I have wings so what can take
23:44
us to space
23:46
what has wings aha over here Space
23:50
Shuttle right the Space Shuttle can fly
23:53
us into space the Space Shuttle has
23:56
wings so the answer is the Space Shuttle
24:00
Space Shuttle okay that is the answer I
24:05
am a space shuttle okay eight
24:10
Sally is very smart good for Sally right
24:14
what did she do in school what did she
24:19
do in school
24:20
to get so smart how did she get so smart
24:25
what did she do what should you do if
24:28
you want to be smart right what should
24:31
you do here it is
24:33
study you should study if you want to be
24:37
smart you should study and you will be
24:40
smart like Sally okay okay well that
24:44
wraps it up for the vocabulary section
24:46
of this lecture let's take a short break
24:49
we'll come back and take a look at the
24:51
reading don't go away
24:53
welcome back after the break are you
24:56
ready to learn about America's first
24:59
woman astronaut that's what the reading
25:03
passage is about but you know it's also
25:06
about something else it's about
25:09
following your dream and working hard
25:12
let's take a look as a child Sally Ride
25:17
Sally Ride wanted to be an astronaut it
25:21
was her dream to fly through space so we
25:26
can see in these two sentences they're
25:29
talking about a childhood dream of Sally
25:32
Ride this is Sally Ride here now as a
25:36
child she wanted to be an astronaut what
25:40
do you want to be when you grow up many
25:43
of you have different answers some
25:45
people might say doctor or lawyer
25:49
or maybe even astronaut do any of you
25:53
want to be an astronaut that is your
25:55
dream it was her dream to fly through
25:59
space fly through space
26:02
that's what astronauts do astronauts fly
26:06
through space do you dream that maybe
26:09
one day you can fly through space maybe
26:13
your dream is to be an astronaut okay
26:16
well that's what we're talking about
26:18
here Sally Ride her dream was to be an
26:22
astronaut however there was just one
26:26
problem there was a problem that maybe
26:30
was hard for her about her dream she
26:33
wanted to be an astronaut but there was
26:35
a problem
26:36
what was the problem at that time at
26:39
that time this is a long time ago you
26:43
can see Sally Ride her hairstyle is a
26:45
bit old-fashioned this is a several
26:48
decades ago right but at that time all
26:52
the astronauts in America were men all
26:56
of them were men no women so Sally Ride
27:00
was like okay right she was how can I be
27:04
an astronaut all the astronauts are men
27:07
I'm a woman or I will be a woman did she
27:11
give up no she didn't give up and that's
27:15
good right so when Sally grew up as she
27:20
grew up she studied science she didn't
27:24
get rid of her dream she thought okay
27:28
I'm a woman so what I will still be an
27:31
astronaut so she studied science
27:34
astronauts need to know a lot of science
27:38
for their job so she studied science she
27:42
wanted to learn all about outer space we
27:46
talked about space before space is the
27:49
area outside the earth we say outer
27:52
space because really there's two kinds
27:55
of space right there's space in this
27:57
room right space in this room is room I
28:00
can move around there's a lot of space
28:03
but when I say outer space I mean
28:06
outside the earth right away from the
28:09
earth and you know different planets
28:11
different stars different galaxies right
28:15
very interesting stuff she wanted to
28:17
learn all about outer space that's the
28:21
area of science that she studied okay
28:24
before I said there are many different
28:26
areas in science
28:28
she studied about outer space she
28:32
studied the planets like Earth okay
28:35
Sally also learned about the Stars so
28:39
when she studied about outer space
28:41
she studied about the planets you know
28:44
about Venus about Mars about mercury she
28:49
also studied about the stars not just
28:51
the Sun which is our star but on many
28:55
other stars in outer space
28:57
she studied about those things then
29:02
something wonderful happened something
29:05
wonderful happened something great
29:07
normal no much oil right Sally read in
29:11
the newspaper that new astronauts were
29:15
needed so the government needed new
29:19
astronauts they wanted to choose her to
29:22
get new astronauts so they put an
29:25
article in the newspaper and that's
29:28
where Sally read in the newspaper about
29:32
that need the government needs new
29:37
astronauts they put an article in the
29:40
newspaper Sally
29:42
read the article in the newspaper okay
29:45
so what did she do she read the
29:49
newspaper then then she wrote a letter
29:53
and was picked was picked right she was
29:58
picked who picked her NASA picked her
30:02
right NASA NASA picked
30:09
Sally that's great right but that's what
30:13
it means was picked who picked her it
30:16
doesn't say because that's passive right
30:18
this is the answer NASA picked her
30:22
that's active voice NASA picked Sally
30:24
she was picked okay
30:27
so NASA chose Sally to be a new
30:31
astronaut wonderful that's even more
30:34
wonderful right it's not easy to be an
30:39
astronaut okay she was picked to be an
30:41
astronaut but remember it's not easy
30:43
it's not easy to be an astronaut it's of
30:47
course means it is and it when we're
30:53
talking about some situation it's very
30:55
common for example it's not easy to
30:58
study right I'm sorry it's true it's not
31:02
easy to study it's not easy to climb a
31:06
mountain right it's not easy to be an
31:10
astronaut this is a very common
31:12
expression it is not easy to do
31:15
something it means it's difficult hinder
31:18
all right it's hard okay Sally knew it
31:23
would be hard work hard work right you
31:26
have to put a lot of effort into the
31:30
work right it's hard work to do
31:32
something she had many weeks of training
31:37
training because she needs skills
31:41
astronauts need to know how to do many
31:46
things they need many skills they do a
31:50
lot of training during training during
31:54
the training while the training was
31:56
going on during training Sally learned
32:00
about the space shuttle so part of her
32:03
training is to learn about the Space
32:05
Shuttle how it works what to do okay she
32:10
also learned what to do training during
32:15
the flight into space so when she flew
32:18
into space she also learned what to do
32:22
look at this picture is she laying down
32:24
no in outer space there's no gravity no
32:29
gravity no gravity no gravity v i-- t y
32:39
no gravity that means whoa I'd float
32:42
away right there's gravity keeping me
32:44
down right now
32:45
otherwise if there's no gravity I would
32:47
just float up into this up into the air
32:50
that's what she's doing she's kind of
32:51
floating see she's here like this and
32:53
another person is kind of going like
32:56
that right looks like he's going up but
32:58
there's no gravity right so she's flying
33:01
into space she learned what to do during
33:03
the flight in space
33:05
okay at last at last means finally at
33:11
the finish okay at the finish at last
33:16
Sally finished her training and was
33:18
ready so at last finally she finished
33:22
her training then she's ready she flew
33:26
on the space shuttle Challenger the
33:29
space shuttles name this is the name of
33:33
the space shuttle every space shuttle
33:36
had a different name there were several
33:39
many space shuttles and the name of her
33:42
Space Shuttle was the Challenger okay
33:45
that was her first space shuttle while
33:48
in space she helped put out satellites
33:52
remember that picture we saw way back at
33:55
the beginning of this lesson when I said
33:58
what do astronauts do they put
34:01
satellites into space that's what she
34:04
was doing maybe that was her in the
34:06
picture we're not sure because she was
34:08
wearing that suit right okay she helped
34:12
put out satellites these machines these
34:14
machines these machines refers back to
34:19
satellites so satellites go around the
34:22
earth and take pictures satellites go
34:25
around the earth and take pictures okay
34:30
Sally became the first American woman to
34:33
go into space
34:35
didn't give up her dream she did not
34:38
give up remember at the beginning she
34:41
said there was a problem all the merit
34:43
all the astronauts in America were men
34:45
she didn't give up
34:47
she studied science she trained hard so
34:50
she became the first American woman to
34:52
go into space right
34:55
many people think she is special because
34:58
of this so many people think oh wow
35:01
she's special she's the first woman yay
35:04
great really good but but all Sally
35:08
cares about is that her dream came true
35:12
she doesn't care about being special
35:16
she doesn't think oh it's great you know
35:18
the first woman in space she doesn't
35:20
care about that what's more important to
35:24
her what is more important is that her
35:29
dream came true more important that her
35:34
dream came true that's most important to
35:37
Sally she's not worried about oh I'm a
35:40
woman you know there's another man she's
35:42
not worried about that she's thinks most
35:45
importantly my dream came true and she
35:48
didn't let the circumstances stop her
35:52
from making her dream come true make her
35:56
dream make your dream make your dream
36:03
come true that's a good expression right
36:08
make your dream come true came true so
36:13
when your dream is realized you actually
36:16
you get your dream your dream came true
36:20
okay that's the good expression that's
36:22
how to say it in English my dream came
36:25
true I hope your dreams come true okay
36:29
let's move on to the comprehension
36:31
questions okay again number one this
36:34
story is about what is the whole story
36:37
about if you think about just one
36:39
subject that describes this entire story
36:42
what is it what are the choices a
36:45
training be a little girl
36:49
see science ordy a female astronaut well
36:54
if we think about this story what was
36:56
this story about this story was about
36:59
Sally Ride wasn't it it was about Sally
37:02
Ride and why is Sally Ride important
37:07
because she was the first American
37:10
female astronaut what is that that looks
37:14
like number D write letter D okay so
37:17
Sally Ride is a female astronaut that's
37:20
what the story is about okay sure
37:23
we talked about training a little bit
37:25
right Sally Ride had to train to become
37:28
a female astronaut sure she was a little
37:31
girl at the beginning of the story but
37:33
the entire story was not about her
37:36
childhood it was about her whole life
37:38
see science yes she studied science the
37:43
story mentioned science but it was about
37:46
Sally Ride who studied science in order
37:50
to become a female astronaut so this
37:53
whole story all of these things are
37:55
connected to D the whole story is about
37:59
D a female astronaut that's the answer
38:03
okay number two it was Sally's dream
38:07
what was her dream what did she dream
38:10
what did she want to do a fly airplanes
38:15
did Sally want to fly airplanes become a
38:18
pilot no she didn't want to fly
38:21
airplanes right she wanted to be
38:24
something else she wanted to go more
38:26
further away than pilots do okay B be a
38:31
scientist well Sally did study science
38:34
that's true but her dream wasn't to
38:37
become a scientist
38:39
she studied science in order to use her
38:42
knowledge to be something else but not a
38:45
scientist she didn't want to be a
38:47
scientist C fly through space Sally as
38:54
the beginning of the story said she
38:57
wanted to be an astronaut because she
38:59
wanted to fly through
39:01
face so it was Sally's dream to fly
39:04
through space that's the correct answer
39:06
that's true right so that's what we got
39:09
there okay
39:11
to read the newspaper well fly through
39:14
space that's the answer
39:14
it was Sally's dream to fly through
39:16
space D it was Sally's dream to read the
39:19
newspaper it was her dream to read the
39:22
newspaper that's kind of a silly dream
39:25
right I hope you don't have a dream
39:28
that's so easy just pick up the
39:29
newspaper and read it that's not a dream
39:31
just do it all right
39:32
that's very silly so obviously that's
39:35
not correct the right answer is C it was
39:38
Sally's dream to fly through space okay
39:41
number three Sally
39:43
Beebe for many weeks to be an astronaut
39:47
what did she do did she study did she
39:50
train did she fly did she sleep well the
39:53
story said that she had to learn how to
39:56
do many things right and that means that
39:59
she trained for many weeks to be an
40:02
astronaut not studied she studied for
40:05
many years and she studied science for
40:08
many years to become an astronaut the
40:10
story specifically said that she trained
40:13
for many weeks to be an astronaut she
40:17
flew for many weeks to be an astronaut
40:19
no that's not correct
40:20
she slept that's crazy wouldn't that be
40:24
nice though if you just sleep I'll just
40:26
go to sleep for two weeks and I'll wake
40:28
up I'm an astronaut we can't do that I'm
40:31
sorry but it's not exciting it's better
40:35
to Train that's more exciting sleeping
40:37
is boring right okay so there correct
40:40
answer Sally trained for many weeks to
40:43
be an astronaut that is the correct
40:46
answer okay number four Sally Ride was
40:51
what was she okay let's take a look
40:54
Sally Ride was a great teacher the only
40:58
female astronaut see the first female
41:01
pilot Dee the first American female
41:04
astronaut okay so which sentence is true
41:08
or the best sentence about Sally Ride
41:11
let's take a look
41:13
she was a great teacher no the article
41:16
the passage didn't mention anything
41:19
about Sally teaching anybody so that's
41:22
not right be the only female astronaut
41:25
be careful here it says the only did the
41:30
article say that there was no other
41:33
female astronauts ever it didn't say
41:37
that the article was about Sally Ride
41:39
being the first female astronaut maybe
41:43
other females became astronauts after
41:47
her that's possible but the story didn't
41:50
say it so it's not about the only female
41:53
astronaut right it's about the first
41:56
female astronauts right so only is not
42:00
correct we can't use B see the foe here
42:03
we have first but when this word is a
42:05
problem right the first female pilot now
42:09
it's not a pilot she didn't want to it
42:11
wasn't her dream to become a pilot so
42:14
that's not right because of this word
42:16
here it's actually the first female
42:18
astronaut and that's what we find down
42:20
here the first we got first and we have
42:23
astronaut and of course female so the
42:26
first female astronaut that is what
42:29
Sally Ride was okay so the answer of
42:32
course is D Sally Ride was the first
42:36
American female astronaut that is the
42:40
answer to that question okay good okay
42:43
let's come to our conclusion here this
42:47
is a picture again of Sally Ride this
42:50
she is the first American female
42:53
astronaut and what does she have to say
42:56
what are some things that she would say
42:57
to us well first of all she would say I
43:00
wanted to be an astronaut so that was
43:04
her dream when she was a child okay
43:06
she might also say I studied all about
43:10
science so she had a dream this is her
43:13
dream how did she make her dream come
43:15
true first she studied all about outer
43:19
space planets and other Suns our stars
43:22
right she wrote a letter to the
43:26
newspaper
43:26
and was picked for a new astronaut she
43:29
right remember the story in the
43:31
newspaper she saw it so she wrote a
43:33
letter and she was picked to be a new
43:36
astronaut great wonderful news finally
43:40
she can say I finished training so she
43:43
trained to be an astronaut and flew on
43:46
the space shuttle Challenger okay so her
43:50
dream came true she became an astronaut
43:53
and she flew on the space shuttle which
43:55
was named Challenger okay
43:58
very inspiring story I hope so we can
44:03
learn many things about astronauts but
44:06
we can also learn very important that
44:09
your dreams can come true if you work
44:13
hard and you have some wonderful news
44:15
then you can do what you want to do your
44:19
dream can come true and I hope your
44:21
dreams do come true
44:22
okay well that wraps it up for this
44:24
lesson we'll see you next time
44:26
take care everybody
