# UNIT 7 Energy | Lesson 14 Electricity

- <https://youtu.be/HsCjEk5stBc>
- Focus on
  - Where does electricity come from?
  - And where does it go?

- [UNIT 7 Energy | Lesson 14 Electricity](#unit-7-energy--lesson-14-electricity)
  - [un-toggle timestamps Transcript](#un-toggle-timestamps-transcript)
  - [toggle timestamps Transcript](#toggle-timestamps-transcript)

## un-toggle timestamps Transcript

[Music]
so let's begin with our first word
electricity is a type of energy isn't it
electricity is a type of energy but what
is the word from the unit from our
lesson that is the same as energy what
is that word we can see that that word
is power power they'll be careful when
pronouncing p-pop when you pronounce P
your lips are together and you have
power sound behind it
pom pom power okay so it's a powerful
word isn't it
power so power is the same as energy
power and energy are the same thing okay
so that's our first word let's move on
to the second word okay let's look at
our second word our second word is about
this device here we can see it's a
device that turns sunlight into
electricity so let's look at this here a
device a device is a machine or a tool
that you use to do something in this
case it's a device a machine that turns
turns turns changes okay so when you say
it turns a into B it changes a into B in
this case it's turning sunlight into
electricity so this device turns
sunlight into electricity isn't that
great
imagine we have sunlight coming down
right and it's being turned into
electricity so what are these things
what are they well if we look at our
word list we can see that their solar
panel solar panels many but one is solar
panel this is a little difficult of a
word right
think about it this way Solar means from
the Sun solar is associated with the Sun
solar panel a panel is a flat device
here like this this is one panel there
are many panels so solar panel and
remember the P pronunciation panel panel
lips together so we have solar panel you
guys practice solar panel okay good
solar panel okay let's move on this is
one device of course to make electricity
let's move on to our third word our
third word our clue is a building well
this is a strange-looking building right
but it's a building where electricity is
made a building where electricity is
made what kind of building can that be
remember our word that we learned in the
first time it was power right so we put
these two words together power and we
have plant plant now you may know plant
are we talking about a bush or a flower
no another meaning of plant is like a
factory where something is made
especially energy energy plant or power
plant so here this building which looks
very strange it's a very interesting
looking building is a power plant we
make electricity at this building okay
so this is a building where electricity
is made this is a little difficult of a
word let's practice
power plant remember we have two peas
here pup power plant power plant you
guys try it power plant okay good let's
move on then to our fourth word here our
clue is a giant fan a giant fan these
are huge aren't they they're really
really big fans not
in your house right you don't have these
in your house to make you cool these are
outside it's interesting let's look at
this be careful this is giant fan but we
have the F sound
be careful between F and whoops F versus
P before we learn Pete pup-pup is the
sound for that but be careful with F
with F we put our teeth on our bottom
lip like this oh so we have fan fan
let the air flow through your teeth fan
okay so P there's no air going through
your lips are closed tight pup and then
you release it powerfully okay so a
giant fan what is a giant fan this is
also where we use we can get electricity
where does it come from we can make
electricity with a turbine a turbine
these are turbines also be careful here
if we just said if there's no e e up
some yun then it's turbine right but e
is some yun turbine it makes the AI a
longer sound turbine
let's practice turbine turbine okay so
these are turbines they generate they
make electricity they turn wind energy
into electricity okay let's move on now
we've talked about where electricity
comes from how can we get electricity
that we've we found out how we can make
electricity but how can we use
electricity where can we get the
electricity from we can get electricity
from this you can see this in your house
right how many do you have in your house
wait you can count them later let's
study okay you can count how many you
have in your house later
what is this what is this we can
describe it as a spot a spot a place
right a spot where you can get
electricity so you want electricity
for your computer for your smartphone
where can you get it if your battery is
dead you can get it from here this is an
out
let's look this is like two words out
out going out and let out let think of
it this way it lets the electricity out
of this place so you can get it and you
can use it it's an outlet so this is
where you can get your electricity okay
so that's very useful let's move on now
behind the outlet right we have these
things okay we're talking about the
metal part here right this is a long
thin piece of metal metal that's this
part here not this part this part is
plastic but inside the plastic is metal
what is this called this is called a
wire wire again remember II upsome young
we're okay but E is a wire stretch the I
sound makes it long wire so practice
wire okay wire why are we concerned
about wire electricity moves through the
wire goes to your outlet and that's
important so there are wires inside your
house okay okay
some the wires are inside your house but
we you also have wires on the outside of
your computer this is a special word for
these kinds of wires this is a short
wire for moving electricity electricity
travels through a wire but on your
computer or on your battery pack for
your cell phone you have
wires we have a special word for that
what is that word that word is cord cord
a court is a small wire with two ends
you put one end in the outlet the other
end goes into your device into your
computer or smartphone
that's short wire we call a cord of cord
okay let's move on number eight at the
end of the cord this is the cord here
this is the cord part here what is this
part what is that this is the part of a
cord that goes into an outlet right you
have to connect your cord to your outlet
to get the electricity out what do we
call this part we call this part a plug
plug let's practice that we have a blend
P and L pool plug plug you guys plug
very good okay plug so we use this plug
we put it into the outlet and then we
can get our electricity okay great
let's move on here what's this boy doing
right he's very happy he is using a
device we use for many things maybe
right now you're watching me on this
device what is this device of course you
know this this is very easy right it is
a computer come view tur computer right
computer of course you know that that's
an easy one so this boy is using a
computer we don't see the cord but of
course is probably a cord that the
electricity is coming into and these are
this is one example of many devices we
use with electricity we need electricity
to use these devices so this is a
computer
now let's take a look at your word
number 10 okay
sometimes we want to make electricity go
from one place to another
so what verb can we use to describe that
motion going from one place to another
to move something to move something to
somewhere else I'm in Korea I want to
send a present to my friend in America I
will do what with that present I will go
to the post office and I will send it
the present to my friend when we talk
about electricity we need to send
electricity from the power plant to the
outlet in your house okay so this is a
verb be careful some verbs in English
are not regular they change form when
you use them in different situations for
example send that's now chicken III
I am sending I will send also future
sent is past quoi go write sent and sent
so I sent my present I sent a present to
my friend in America that's quoi go okay
past tense okay send sent sent practice
that you guys send sent sent
okay very good okay let's move on then
wow look at these birds where are they
going
all right they are going of course it
must be getting cold and they're going
south right well what are they doing
they are moving from one place to
another so if you move from one place to
another what are you doing it's a verb
travel travel so I want to go to America
I will travel to America travel to
somewhere move from one place to another
place I will travel to America I will
travel to another country so these birds
are
traveling south okay let's take a look
at the next one our last word here it's
kind of a scary word right that's be
careful of this right be careful of this
sign if you see that sign on a bottle
stay away from that bottle right this
what what can we say this about this
it's causing deaf deaf somebody dies
right it's very dangerous
what word are we looking at here we are
looking at deadly deadly is a
description word right adjective it
describes something we can look at this
and say Oh be careful
it's deadly it can cause death why are
we looking at this word deadly in our
topic about electricity because you have
to be careful electricity can be deadly
it can be very dangerous
so although electricity is very useful
we use it for many things you also have
to be careful electricity can also be
dangerous it can be deadly

## toggle timestamps Transcript

00:00
[Music]
00:05
so let's begin with our first word
00:09
electricity is a type of energy isn't it
00:12
electricity is a type of energy but what
00:15
is the word from the unit from our
00:18
lesson that is the same as energy what
00:22
is that word we can see that that word
00:24
is power power they'll be careful when
00:29
pronouncing p-pop when you pronounce P
00:34
your lips are together and you have
00:38
power sound behind it
00:41
pom pom power okay so it's a powerful
00:46
word isn't it
00:47
power so power is the same as energy
00:52
power and energy are the same thing okay
00:55
so that's our first word let's move on
00:58
to the second word okay let's look at
01:00
our second word our second word is about
01:04
this device here we can see it's a
01:07
device that turns sunlight into
01:11
electricity so let's look at this here a
01:15
device a device is a machine or a tool
01:20
that you use to do something in this
01:23
case it's a device a machine that turns
01:27
turns turns changes okay so when you say
01:32
it turns a into B it changes a into B in
01:38
this case it's turning sunlight into
01:42
electricity so this device turns
01:46
sunlight into electricity isn't that
01:49
great
01:50
imagine we have sunlight coming down
01:53
right and it's being turned into
01:56
electricity so what are these things
01:59
what are they well if we look at our
02:01
word list we can see that their solar
02:04
panel solar panels many but one is solar
02:09
panel this is a little difficult of a
02:12
word right
02:13
think about it this way Solar means from
02:18
the Sun solar is associated with the Sun
02:21
solar panel a panel is a flat device
02:28
here like this this is one panel there
02:31
are many panels so solar panel and
02:35
remember the P pronunciation panel panel
02:39
lips together so we have solar panel you
02:42
guys practice solar panel okay good
02:47
solar panel okay let's move on this is
02:49
one device of course to make electricity
02:51
let's move on to our third word our
02:55
third word our clue is a building well
02:59
this is a strange-looking building right
03:02
but it's a building where electricity is
03:05
made a building where electricity is
03:09
made what kind of building can that be
03:13
remember our word that we learned in the
03:16
first time it was power right so we put
03:19
these two words together power and we
03:22
have plant plant now you may know plant
03:26
are we talking about a bush or a flower
03:28
no another meaning of plant is like a
03:33
factory where something is made
03:35
especially energy energy plant or power
03:39
plant so here this building which looks
03:43
very strange it's a very interesting
03:45
looking building is a power plant we
03:49
make electricity at this building okay
03:53
so this is a building where electricity
03:55
is made this is a little difficult of a
03:58
word let's practice
04:00
power plant remember we have two peas
04:03
here pup power plant power plant you
04:09
guys try it power plant okay good let's
04:13
move on then to our fourth word here our
04:17
clue is a giant fan a giant fan these
04:22
are huge aren't they they're really
04:23
really big fans not
04:27
in your house right you don't have these
04:29
in your house to make you cool these are
04:32
outside it's interesting let's look at
04:34
this be careful this is giant fan but we
04:39
have the F sound
04:41
be careful between F and whoops F versus
04:48
P before we learn Pete pup-pup is the
04:53
sound for that but be careful with F
04:55
with F we put our teeth on our bottom
04:59
lip like this oh so we have fan fan
05:07
let the air flow through your teeth fan
05:11
okay so P there's no air going through
05:14
your lips are closed tight pup and then
05:17
you release it powerfully okay so a
05:20
giant fan what is a giant fan this is
05:25
also where we use we can get electricity
05:29
where does it come from we can make
05:31
electricity with a turbine a turbine
05:36
these are turbines also be careful here
05:39
if we just said if there's no e e up
05:42
some yun then it's turbine right but e
05:46
is some yun turbine it makes the AI a
05:50
longer sound turbine
05:53
let's practice turbine turbine okay so
05:58
these are turbines they generate they
06:02
make electricity they turn wind energy
06:06
into electricity okay let's move on now
06:12
we've talked about where electricity
06:15
comes from how can we get electricity
06:18
that we've we found out how we can make
06:21
electricity but how can we use
06:23
electricity where can we get the
06:26
electricity from we can get electricity
06:29
from this you can see this in your house
06:32
right how many do you have in your house
06:34
wait you can count them later let's
06:37
study okay you can count how many you
06:39
have in your house later
06:41
what is this what is this we can
06:43
describe it as a spot a spot a place
06:46
right a spot where you can get
06:50
electricity so you want electricity
06:54
for your computer for your smartphone
06:58
where can you get it if your battery is
07:00
dead you can get it from here this is an
07:04
out
07:05
let's look this is like two words out
07:10
out going out and let out let think of
07:15
it this way it lets the electricity out
07:18
of this place so you can get it and you
07:23
can use it it's an outlet so this is
07:26
where you can get your electricity okay
07:29
so that's very useful let's move on now
07:34
behind the outlet right we have these
07:37
things okay we're talking about the
07:39
metal part here right this is a long
07:42
thin piece of metal metal that's this
07:47
part here not this part this part is
07:50
plastic but inside the plastic is metal
07:54
what is this called this is called a
07:58
wire wire again remember II upsome young
08:02
we're okay but E is a wire stretch the I
08:08
sound makes it long wire so practice
08:11
wire okay wire why are we concerned
08:16
about wire electricity moves through the
08:21
wire goes to your outlet and that's
08:23
important so there are wires inside your
08:26
house okay okay
08:29
some the wires are inside your house but
08:32
we you also have wires on the outside of
08:35
your computer this is a special word for
08:38
these kinds of wires this is a short
08:41
wire for moving electricity electricity
08:45
travels through a wire but on your
08:48
computer or on your battery pack for
08:51
your cell phone you have
08:53
wires we have a special word for that
08:56
what is that word that word is cord cord
09:01
a court is a small wire with two ends
09:05
you put one end in the outlet the other
09:08
end goes into your device into your
09:11
computer or smartphone
09:13
that's short wire we call a cord of cord
09:17
okay let's move on number eight at the
09:21
end of the cord this is the cord here
09:24
this is the cord part here what is this
09:28
part what is that this is the part of a
09:33
cord that goes into an outlet right you
09:37
have to connect your cord to your outlet
09:41
to get the electricity out what do we
09:44
call this part we call this part a plug
09:49
plug let's practice that we have a blend
09:53
P and L pool plug plug you guys plug
10:02
very good okay plug so we use this plug
10:06
we put it into the outlet and then we
10:09
can get our electricity okay great
10:13
let's move on here what's this boy doing
10:16
right he's very happy he is using a
10:19
device we use for many things maybe
10:24
right now you're watching me on this
10:28
device what is this device of course you
10:31
know this this is very easy right it is
10:35
a computer come view tur computer right
10:41
computer of course you know that that's
10:43
an easy one so this boy is using a
10:45
computer we don't see the cord but of
10:47
course is probably a cord that the
10:50
electricity is coming into and these are
10:53
this is one example of many devices we
10:56
use with electricity we need electricity
11:00
to use these devices so this is a
11:03
computer
11:06
now let's take a look at your word
11:08
number 10 okay
11:10
sometimes we want to make electricity go
11:14
from one place to another
11:16
so what verb can we use to describe that
11:19
motion going from one place to another
11:22
to move something to move something to
11:26
somewhere else I'm in Korea I want to
11:31
send a present to my friend in America I
11:34
will do what with that present I will go
11:37
to the post office and I will send it
11:40
the present to my friend when we talk
11:43
about electricity we need to send
11:46
electricity from the power plant to the
11:49
outlet in your house okay so this is a
11:53
verb be careful some verbs in English
11:56
are not regular they change form when
12:01
you use them in different situations for
12:04
example send that's now chicken III
12:08
I am sending I will send also future
12:11
sent is past quoi go write sent and sent
12:16
so I sent my present I sent a present to
12:21
my friend in America that's quoi go okay
12:24
past tense okay send sent sent practice
12:28
that you guys send sent sent
12:32
okay very good okay let's move on then
12:35
wow look at these birds where are they
12:38
going
12:38
all right they are going of course it
12:42
must be getting cold and they're going
12:44
south right well what are they doing
12:46
they are moving from one place to
12:49
another so if you move from one place to
12:52
another what are you doing it's a verb
12:56
travel travel so I want to go to America
13:01
I will travel to America travel to
13:07
somewhere move from one place to another
13:11
place I will travel to America I will
13:16
travel to another country so these birds
13:19
are
13:20
traveling south okay let's take a look
13:23
at the next one our last word here it's
13:26
kind of a scary word right that's be
13:30
careful of this right be careful of this
13:33
sign if you see that sign on a bottle
13:35
stay away from that bottle right this
13:38
what what can we say this about this
13:41
it's causing deaf deaf somebody dies
13:44
right it's very dangerous
13:46
what word are we looking at here we are
13:48
looking at deadly deadly is a
13:52
description word right adjective it
13:55
describes something we can look at this
13:58
and say Oh be careful
14:00
it's deadly it can cause death why are
14:03
we looking at this word deadly in our
14:06
topic about electricity because you have
14:09
to be careful electricity can be deadly
14:13
it can be very dangerous
14:15
so although electricity is very useful
14:18
we use it for many things you also have
14:21
to be careful electricity can also be
14:25
dangerous it can be deadly
