# Unit 1 Environment | Lesson 03 Pollution

- Focus on Pollution is bad for the environment.
- <https://youtu.be/eUyXBEBYpgk>

- [Unit 1 Environment | Lesson 03 Pollution](#unit-1-environment--lesson-03-pollution)
  - [un-toggle timestamps transcript](#un-toggle-timestamps-transcript)
  - [toggle timestamps transcript](#toggle-timestamps-transcript)

## un-toggle timestamps transcript

Welcome back to
meaning for traveling and restaurant
World of Action Script Right Now we
talked about pollution and a Crush on
You Need Is about environments a person
is very important when we talk about
investment in the suggestions will focus
on honey's stand body in find it up and
because of Faith a house Super Search
the one to I talked about in the trash
In about how I don't know me out What
the house about one and Death toll
save.net spaghetti ID is first time the
pollution in disputed OneTV talk about
Sugar Canes position trong
ở thực vật lực chấn động worth two kinds
of the first One What can the pollution
these sentences using the Factory black
and fun to Listen English as special and
pollution apple scene When are something
which the Goddess orgacids for you in
your fortress chorus people Smoking
right dress is a type of Air pollution
on the type of Air pollution talk about
What is this What is the weather in
Words as posible like the built
spotcommerce a stake in the forests and
of course is worth holstein start a war
Arena Alipas in Ha Noi het Minh quemar
We Take a shower was the weather was
appointed degrees you will have to want
Love Live
a position Air pollution and wonderful
place in Young marketers English Words
were gonna love handel adjustable
cavalli watch the Hearts talk about
these is the first We Going to talk
about j3 dishes and start about the
mental illness and wanna One pick me was
discussed Seconds Ago with talking about
pollution solution the best is this your
world Like It has to be without hope
Lucian thủ dâm Together harrelson Owen
Wilson solutions job you get Haru xin
visa Best Friends anywhere Hồng you soon
It will have to watch out for ok
hình ảnh xe crack We have to be parsed
in Sapa is very nice dress with apple Is
your chances Westlife this Apple is
important to wear my can dance together
cast of lease at once if you need and
unstyled because You're all like food
hay thế hả course the swarm Tronie
pelorus because she becomes wealth and
it home for Download two sides have much
for all fun Together one for all guests
are welcomed the Storm in this example
harsen installed for most about weather
Ok nexxone within us and a half stack
Combat with going on here to stop to
staff
How to speak but she doing is starting
now a word from fairness and Write in
caching and Intense pulsed to start from
happening is to prevent if you present
some banks free went to town live and
realist pretty girl quickly with its
parent to stop sulfur happening ok
number phone resort city food in the
very Beginning revelation move it all
about Air pollution right but What we
have appeared in workplace uses in the
Places Where are the things on made by
machines are many machines and Sing for
me wanna sing fake hard Drive with rage
halogen Sach sinh your name
a theme Dragon record of Factory of
factory in the face when things or make
wishes of Everything is there is made in
factories Ok Let's Twist Again hiểm
Chiếu rời xa thành phố đi England đấy
thực Like You can Touch or her right or
not well here's a lot When He's gonna go
home and is easy wash hands first
because the hands or deli MobileCity
your hands and wash Your Hands are often
with double Dash test Asus live show
because for your fireside your hands and
the four years and make their faces I
don't hurt me what are you doing Ok và
điều kiện của Qplay Elise
anh em Đình trực Ok nhảy xuống when do
we know You know speak to have you seen
escape to defend your power level of
service ennis users English picture hack
vietguard Epic the underside of the
astronauts cities In Real Life itself
when it's worth What is Just When I call
when vernis when it's cold is his
parents we're leaving press Ok next one
way street fashion Trend marriage And
you send request the best on hot Days in
other countries were with no stays in
their tastes like conic và good Very
Much fashion business or not they It is
water water is necessary for different
languages We are happy I
the fourth enthusiasts and the weather
has picked me neither Did You Get Enough
To Take in to take in and You're a which
has about my doing some print to breathe
pixelmator typical loudspeaker you help
me is fun and when you have the
soundtrack for boss boss of and
enactment aid pro please please please
à vì rất khác với những vector material
will you turned in between each is
pleased that And polished Black Devil
vibration please please forget you can
feel the vibration Please any content
not imply that some time is it now đ
a What is now a Jet novas is bright
starts now have observed that now from
his government's
xe taxi Action previews and Please Don't
confuse it Hurt as is slowly Ok jasinda
Fast Connect with 5 Online to put the
first things Together You have one finds
her you have another xin Heal The word
Pearl the estella Warren doing and tries
next Year was next to spend Together
sometime remix song work work across
next to Switch to sound You can make
Guess what the days you connects your
Dad is the first to defend your dirt and
to prepare you gonna stay Together You
on elections remix ok oh yeah oh
I stumble rẻ hurt2thecore Today he
recall and is assigned doing something
not Dead 2 Dead end There was something
is buying your favorite results picture
of the help of the Global witness tour
is in your hands and making the small
call you just What to eat course because
of small talk anymore single Words that
Most stores and lost
I work for tourists Mode and the
transport is most From The vengeance is
tall and thoughts and That's because
with spelling albin caso de everning
inside the Engine and Dreaming of small
And you have five You Go Camping in the
what do you like to find that smoked
backup your finances and got in
restaurant and engineers and stunning
inch Smart Come and Find Your speaking
course motsu ok enjoys it personal Ok
oled EZ Mode with Thailand season that
nothing the burnham great person judge
Me ep captions look like this one today
is right and We take you not to make
your hand out mua ở đây
chị sẽ xảy ra và gấu cần thuốc you want
to Touch the heart Pink Crystal Blue
Thái Pieces Pieces and Want To Be Your
guide which cause in test test Again And
improve their parents with Dust and that
She would go synced to no trong City
Hunter That is at one time Test Test Ok
faculty and decide now We're Happy and
know that it's just walk it time is
ended in ear ok number Of Heaven and
usage for gái chị đã rất vô cơ right
position is said that if you Seek
yeudongho schools and show yourself
stayhome sac-i here's a homesafe i have
I và II trực khô thêm gì đấy Hi hands
and Spirit Perfect Circle be stay here
Day When I can understand what you you
and i don't you are making of some help
you make Friends with the hand you speak
english much do you can take up first
English restore you can also have closed
for preparing and autumn War Marvel
Santa gotham season Wakeup the boring
look Of Your choice of work or rectum
buys her address phone number four years
schools and forget vehicle-controlled
acord Here We have the cost and
scrolling card is make the cards within
you and easy Drive to drive the Compact
LiveScore
a huynh rằng Hàn Jae Kyung Eun
driverstore Ok Nexus Until You see the
three companies like What you've throw
Away The mother father At Risk Heart Go
take out the word that cao beach dress
Made
How to dress dress is starts utilmate
empty bottles and contains high values
You Know What animal is problem Where
the streets with the weather that never
Wonder Women The Sun Dragon that it lose
it also call dad
ở cardiff David C Doctors Fresh Green
Turtle hay cao tag a Speech account that
wraps salads and Ok Dustin Oh What's
best Leesin age This is what happens in
each other or Animals have It has acted
as to which She tells the cord drill
caldwell anacortes the cat and with the
Korean tonight show wanna pick and a
Hunter right hands and other Animals and
Used across Scores vnmo standouts SH
Reventon age is general Ok review or
wants the white và see how i met navegar
work along with quote
đại lý sữa Tùng Dinh Ward chính như
Ensure complete sentences with the words
from deportes We have is certain things
We have to complete these sentences with
when it is What's weather and review
pollution solution person next Year
event will last present nhạc xuân please
please phòng khách guard Udyr Nasus
helpful for market reports facturas
Factory is the cool water water and next
One Piece
Anh ơi classnobr How in complete This
sentence is it is number one one Used as
with Dust and more to watch what puz as
We Justin sport watch as journalists And
Furious with Dust and most typical Face
was Missing the best Price Factory is
the face shop Essence make Kings and on
forestry they also movie Award best and
most wanna listen the work and today
Sofia Western Smart number you either
side to you that apparently Ronan III
make Somebody Smoking support your
Life's hard difficulty with water margin
member now and please please
Ừ nếu phải This is very tennis golf mini
lovers in the heart to read it is not me
ep Ellie unnie Smoking kill you under
the weather for your worth spending your
sweetheart amply Ok me want nothing
nothing is our last Three Little pigs
and clear Green Screen when we talk
about what a lovely place to the west to
what make it ends in a supporting the
faces of Tanks when you home is the wall
Cái quý không còn gì City and clear
Green travel or take about water is that
helps to result the west Lake doesn't
live with people all screen brightness
toulouse
a-derma many trees and our guests with
the Festival Pink clean and clear
appears and drink enough food Factory
and cold make watch market report about
the Seafood all right before the
potential in Honor of replies Number One
We talked about Factory Write your
thoughts with me that make me and the
weather today the Bottle neck with mixed
and work position make stand durch
spotless and cosme position with some
that it is not something and day that
you is something that you as part of a
side effects Of You Zing newsstand
petrus on.me solutions with some English
the happen with that of activity that
doing Center which costs quyền hạn Be
careful
a force crater scroll position ok
suivant number five Winny cream the
great let you stand Together because the
more you great wall to which one of
these tâm What is strange language or
just before this thrilling woman drink
and of course We talked about more
whitening cream water to drain out let
me live action Fantasy pequenas integer
your death defying acts đâm my friends
and Dreams riêng Dragons I want to Air
pollution the water was to you Happy
pollution is bad I want to stop it back
to want to stop it from happening with
What will like it means to stop
I wish It is worth it means to start for
handling and start earning their boats
to sleep and I want to spend their
positions that way How to prevent
addiction don't live while you work work
with the bicycle test how are you sure
prevent Air pollution ok number seven
burning sands nhungle bagaj Scoopy I
would jump Alpha Gold smaking a watch
right Because I remember that most
Common off and most macetas What to the
ATM Buddy Swatch Watch this way i'm hurt
and is one knows What the smoke of
pollution is as easy and Dad i hate that
existed recompiling Pearl Pink make
small business solution is macetas Ji
ex1 lucius with plants and Animals How
nostalgic within the work from their
Accord tour in that because it's cold
Damage caused The Storm the search
across America first home For Life code
Story is some pairs to work and elements
of cause pollution that the position as
customers for the treatment with stand
for girls It's the streets pollution and
performance and M Ok đã graafschap all
of vocabulary review We have won the
girl was now Love You The Witch Atlas
work and secured and Turning section
first Defense II

## toggle timestamps transcript

00:00
Welcome back to
00:10
meaning for traveling and restaurant
00:13
World of Action Script Right Now we
00:16
talked about pollution and a Crush on
00:19
You Need Is about environments a person
00:22
is very important when we talk about
00:26
investment in the suggestions will focus
00:29
on honey's stand body in find it up and
00:35
because of Faith a house Super Search
00:38
the one to I talked about in the trash
00:41
In about how I don't know me out What
00:45
the house about one and Death toll
00:48
save.net spaghetti ID is first time the
00:53
pollution in disputed OneTV talk about
00:57
Sugar Canes position trong
01:00
ở thực vật lực chấn động worth two kinds
01:02
of the first One What can the pollution
01:05
these sentences using the Factory black
01:09
and fun to Listen English as special and
01:12
pollution apple scene When are something
01:17
which the Goddess orgacids for you in
01:21
your fortress chorus people Smoking
01:26
right dress is a type of Air pollution
01:30
on the type of Air pollution talk about
01:33
What is this What is the weather in
01:36
Words as posible like the built
01:40
spotcommerce a stake in the forests and
01:43
of course is worth holstein start a war
01:47
Arena Alipas in Ha Noi het Minh quemar
01:52
We Take a shower was the weather was
01:56
appointed degrees you will have to want
01:59
Love Live
02:00
a position Air pollution and wonderful
02:04
place in Young marketers English Words
02:07
were gonna love handel adjustable
02:11
cavalli watch the Hearts talk about
02:14
these is the first We Going to talk
02:18
about j3 dishes and start about the
02:22
mental illness and wanna One pick me was
02:28
discussed Seconds Ago with talking about
02:31
pollution solution the best is this your
02:36
world Like It has to be without hope
02:41
Lucian thủ dâm Together harrelson Owen
02:46
Wilson solutions job you get Haru xin
02:51
visa Best Friends anywhere Hồng you soon
02:56
It will have to watch out for ok
02:59
hình ảnh xe crack We have to be parsed
03:03
in Sapa is very nice dress with apple Is
03:09
your chances Westlife this Apple is
03:14
important to wear my can dance together
03:19
cast of lease at once if you need and
03:23
unstyled because You're all like food
03:26
hay thế hả course the swarm Tronie
03:30
pelorus because she becomes wealth and
03:33
it home for Download two sides have much
03:37
for all fun Together one for all guests
03:43
are welcomed the Storm in this example
03:46
harsen installed for most about weather
03:49
Ok nexxone within us and a half stack
03:55
Combat with going on here to stop to
03:58
staff
03:59
How to speak but she doing is starting
04:03
now a word from fairness and Write in
04:06
caching and Intense pulsed to start from
04:09
happening is to prevent if you present
04:14
some banks free went to town live and
04:21
realist pretty girl quickly with its
04:25
parent to stop sulfur happening ok
04:30
number phone resort city food in the
04:33
very Beginning revelation move it all
04:35
about Air pollution right but What we
04:38
have appeared in workplace uses in the
04:43
Places Where are the things on made by
04:47
machines are many machines and Sing for
04:52
me wanna sing fake hard Drive with rage
04:56
halogen Sach sinh your name
04:59
a theme Dragon record of Factory of
05:04
factory in the face when things or make
05:07
wishes of Everything is there is made in
05:12
factories Ok Let's Twist Again hiểm
05:15
Chiếu rời xa thành phố đi England đấy
05:19
thực Like You can Touch or her right or
05:25
not well here's a lot When He's gonna go
05:30
home and is easy wash hands first
05:34
because the hands or deli MobileCity
05:39
your hands and wash Your Hands are often
05:44
with double Dash test Asus live show
05:47
because for your fireside your hands and
05:50
the four years and make their faces I
05:53
don't hurt me what are you doing Ok và
05:57
điều kiện của Qplay Elise
05:59
anh em Đình trực Ok nhảy xuống when do
06:04
we know You know speak to have you seen
06:07
escape to defend your power level of
06:10
service ennis users English picture hack
06:13
vietguard Epic the underside of the
06:16
astronauts cities In Real Life itself
06:20
when it's worth What is Just When I call
06:24
when vernis when it's cold is his
06:29
parents we're leaving press Ok next one
06:34
way street fashion Trend marriage And
06:38
you send request the best on hot Days in
06:42
other countries were with no stays in
06:45
their tastes like conic và good Very
06:48
Much fashion business or not they It is
06:52
water water is necessary for different
06:56
languages We are happy I
06:59
the fourth enthusiasts and the weather
07:02
has picked me neither Did You Get Enough
07:07
To Take in to take in and You're a which
07:13
has about my doing some print to breathe
07:23
pixelmator typical loudspeaker you help
07:26
me is fun and when you have the
07:29
soundtrack for boss boss of and
07:33
enactment aid pro please please please
07:47
à vì rất khác với những vector material
07:52
will you turned in between each is
07:55
pleased that And polished Black Devil
07:59
vibration please please forget you can
08:03
feel the vibration Please any content
08:06
not imply that some time is it now đ
08:13
a What is now a Jet novas is bright
08:18
starts now have observed that now from
08:23
his government's
08:26
xe taxi Action previews and Please Don't
08:31
confuse it Hurt as is slowly Ok jasinda
08:37
Fast Connect with 5 Online to put the
08:41
first things Together You have one finds
08:44
her you have another xin Heal The word
08:47
Pearl the estella Warren doing and tries
08:51
next Year was next to spend Together
08:54
sometime remix song work work across
08:59
next to Switch to sound You can make
09:02
Guess what the days you connects your
09:06
Dad is the first to defend your dirt and
09:10
to prepare you gonna stay Together You
09:14
on elections remix ok oh yeah oh
09:19
I stumble rẻ hurt2thecore Today he
09:25
recall and is assigned doing something
09:30
not Dead 2 Dead end There was something
09:35
is buying your favorite results picture
09:38
of the help of the Global witness tour
09:42
is in your hands and making the small
09:45
call you just What to eat course because
09:50
of small talk anymore single Words that
09:54
Most stores and lost
09:58
I work for tourists Mode and the
10:02
transport is most From The vengeance is
10:06
tall and thoughts and That's because
10:09
with spelling albin caso de everning
10:12
inside the Engine and Dreaming of small
10:16
And you have five You Go Camping in the
10:20
what do you like to find that smoked
10:23
backup your finances and got in
10:25
restaurant and engineers and stunning
10:30
inch Smart Come and Find Your speaking
10:35
course motsu ok enjoys it personal Ok
10:40
oled EZ Mode with Thailand season that
10:46
nothing the burnham great person judge
10:49
Me ep captions look like this one today
10:52
is right and We take you not to make
10:55
your hand out mua ở đây
10:58
chị sẽ xảy ra và gấu cần thuốc you want
11:02
to Touch the heart Pink Crystal Blue
11:05
Thái Pieces Pieces and Want To Be Your
11:10
guide which cause in test test Again And
11:14
improve their parents with Dust and that
11:19
She would go synced to no trong City
11:24
Hunter That is at one time Test Test Ok
11:30
faculty and decide now We're Happy and
11:33
know that it's just walk it time is
11:37
ended in ear ok number Of Heaven and
11:42
usage for gái chị đã rất vô cơ right
11:45
position is said that if you Seek
11:49
yeudongho schools and show yourself
11:53
stayhome sac-i here's a homesafe i have
11:58
I và II trực khô thêm gì đấy Hi hands
12:05
and Spirit Perfect Circle be stay here
12:10
Day When I can understand what you you
12:13
and i don't you are making of some help
12:16
you make Friends with the hand you speak
12:20
english much do you can take up first
12:21
English restore you can also have closed
12:25
for preparing and autumn War Marvel
12:28
Santa gotham season Wakeup the boring
12:32
look Of Your choice of work or rectum
12:37
buys her address phone number four years
12:41
schools and forget vehicle-controlled
12:44
acord Here We have the cost and
12:47
scrolling card is make the cards within
12:53
you and easy Drive to drive the Compact
12:57
LiveScore
12:58
a huynh rằng Hàn Jae Kyung Eun
13:02
driverstore Ok Nexus Until You see the
13:06
three companies like What you've throw
13:09
Away The mother father At Risk Heart Go
13:13
take out the word that cao beach dress
13:17
Made
13:20
How to dress dress is starts utilmate
13:28
empty bottles and contains high values
13:33
You Know What animal is problem Where
13:36
the streets with the weather that never
13:39
Wonder Women The Sun Dragon that it lose
13:42
it also call dad
13:48
ở cardiff David C Doctors Fresh Green
13:56
Turtle hay cao tag a Speech account that
14:00
wraps salads and Ok Dustin Oh What's
14:05
best Leesin age This is what happens in
14:09
each other or Animals have It has acted
14:14
as to which She tells the cord drill
14:18
caldwell anacortes the cat and with the
14:24
Korean tonight show wanna pick and a
14:27
Hunter right hands and other Animals and
14:30
Used across Scores vnmo standouts SH
14:36
Reventon age is general Ok review or
14:42
wants the white và see how i met navegar
14:46
work along with quote
14:48
đại lý sữa Tùng Dinh Ward chính như
14:52
Ensure complete sentences with the words
14:55
from deportes We have is certain things
14:59
We have to complete these sentences with
15:01
when it is What's weather and review
15:06
pollution solution person next Year
15:12
event will last present nhạc xuân please
15:18
please phòng khách guard Udyr Nasus
15:24
helpful for market reports facturas
15:30
Factory is the cool water water and next
15:37
One Piece
15:38
Anh ơi classnobr How in complete This
15:44
sentence is it is number one one Used as
15:49
with Dust and more to watch what puz as
15:55
We Justin sport watch as journalists And
15:59
Furious with Dust and most typical Face
16:04
was Missing the best Price Factory is
16:07
the face shop Essence make Kings and on
16:11
forestry they also movie Award best and
16:15
most wanna listen the work and today
16:18
Sofia Western Smart number you either
16:22
side to you that apparently Ronan III
16:27
make Somebody Smoking support your
16:30
Life's hard difficulty with water margin
16:34
member now and please please
16:38
Ừ nếu phải This is very tennis golf mini
16:43
lovers in the heart to read it is not me
16:49
ep Ellie unnie Smoking kill you under
16:53
the weather for your worth spending your
16:56
sweetheart amply Ok me want nothing
17:00
nothing is our last Three Little pigs
17:04
and clear Green Screen when we talk
17:07
about what a lovely place to the west to
17:11
what make it ends in a supporting the
17:15
faces of Tanks when you home is the wall
17:19
Cái quý không còn gì City and clear
17:24
Green travel or take about water is that
17:30
helps to result the west Lake doesn't
17:33
live with people all screen brightness
17:37
toulouse
17:39
a-derma many trees and our guests with
17:43
the Festival Pink clean and clear
17:46
appears and drink enough food Factory
17:51
and cold make watch market report about
17:55
the Seafood all right before the
17:57
potential in Honor of replies Number One
18:00
We talked about Factory Write your
18:02
thoughts with me that make me and the
18:06
weather today the Bottle neck with mixed
18:10
and work position make stand durch
18:14
spotless and cosme position with some
18:18
that it is not something and day that
18:21
you is something that you as part of a
18:25
side effects Of You Zing newsstand
18:28
petrus on.me solutions with some English
18:32
the happen with that of activity that
18:35
doing Center which costs quyền hạn Be
18:38
careful
18:38
a force crater scroll position ok
18:43
suivant number five Winny cream the
18:47
great let you stand Together because the
18:51
more you great wall to which one of
18:54
these tâm What is strange language or
18:57
just before this thrilling woman drink
19:00
and of course We talked about more
19:02
whitening cream water to drain out let
19:07
me live action Fantasy pequenas integer
19:10
your death defying acts đâm my friends
19:17
and Dreams riêng Dragons I want to Air
19:22
pollution the water was to you Happy
19:26
pollution is bad I want to stop it back
19:31
to want to stop it from happening with
19:35
What will like it means to stop
19:38
I wish It is worth it means to start for
19:43
handling and start earning their boats
19:46
to sleep and I want to spend their
19:48
positions that way How to prevent
19:52
addiction don't live while you work work
19:56
with the bicycle test how are you sure
19:59
prevent Air pollution ok number seven
20:03
burning sands nhungle bagaj Scoopy I
20:08
would jump Alpha Gold smaking a watch
20:12
right Because I remember that most
20:14
Common off and most macetas What to the
20:18
ATM Buddy Swatch Watch this way i'm hurt
20:23
and is one knows What the smoke of
20:25
pollution is as easy and Dad i hate that
20:30
existed recompiling Pearl Pink make
20:34
small business solution is macetas Ji
20:40
ex1 lucius with plants and Animals How
20:44
nostalgic within the work from their
20:48
Accord tour in that because it's cold
20:53
Damage caused The Storm the search
20:56
across America first home For Life code
20:59
Story is some pairs to work and elements
21:03
of cause pollution that the position as
21:07
customers for the treatment with stand
21:10
for girls It's the streets pollution and
21:14
performance and M Ok đã graafschap all
21:18
of vocabulary review We have won the
21:21
girl was now Love You The Witch Atlas
21:25
work and secured and Turning section
21:27
first Defense II
