# UNIT 4 Life | Lesson 7 How Old is that Tree?

- <https://youtu.be/1BWuSxLCorU>
- Focus on How can we tell the age tree?

- [UNIT 4 Life | Lesson 7 How Old is that Tree?](#unit-4-life--lesson-7-how-old-is-that-tree)
  - [un-toggle timestamps Transcript](#un-toggle-timestamps-transcript)
  - [toggle timestamps Transcript](#toggle-timestamps-transcript)

## un-toggle timestamps Transcript

[Music]
let's start with the vocabulary for this
lesson the first word has to do with
this picture here what do we call this
here this is trees cut up cut up for
making something we make a lot of things
from trees we've talked about this in
previous lessons probably you've we've
studied together on a previous lesson we
can see that trees are used for what
trees are used to make wood we use wood
to make other things like houses
furniture desk chair toys you can have
toys made out of wood these things are
wooden right a wooden chair a wooden
desk a wooden toy things made out of
wood wood okay what's our next word the
next word has to do with this here of
course it's been cut this is a tree that
has been cut but what is the main stem
of a tree if you remember or if you
studied about plants you know there are
many different parts of a plant right
there are the roots
there's the stem there's the branches
the leaves right the flower in some
plants but on a tree right the stem we
have a special word for it because a
small plant we don't say this word but
for a big tree it's strong it's thick
and we use it to make wood what is this
part of the tree we call it the trunk
trunk T our truck truck trunk trunk
we call it the trunk of a tree we don't
really say the stem of a tree that
sounds a little strange
instead we say the trunk of a tree but
if it's a small plant yes you can say
the stem but a big plant like a tree
that's weird we would say the trunk of a
tree not really the stem of a tree that
sounds a little bit strange so it's
better to say the trunk of a tree and
it's the trunk where we get our wood
from most of our wood you can get some
wood from the branches yes but mostly
it's the trunk where we get our wood
okay if you look at the trunk of a tree
that's been cut right this way not this
way
but this way you can see these things
here what are these there's around
circles these aren't a circle or many
circles inside a tree trunk so we want
to know about one we're talking about
singular not plural one of these is
called a ring a ring a ring basically is
a circular shape right many married
people have a ring on their finger right
it's a it's a round shaped like a circle
right and we call these rings right
rings many we say rings so our sound a
ring an ng um ring ring okay so we say
ring a circle inside a tree trunk wow
you can see many rings inside the tree
now we have another word that we can use
look at this tree this is a very very
big tree it's big we use a special word
to say something that's very big this
tree trunk of course this tree trunk is
big but look at this tree wow it goes
from here all the way over to there
that's really big and this is a person
here right so that's your scale right
it's very very big these trees probably
are growing in Northern California or
Oregon Washington the trees are really
big in those states in America what do
we say they're really big one word we
can say they're huge
they're huge they're really really big
if you go to Northern California Oregon
or Washington State you can see these
trees in the forest you walk you
whoa they're huge they're so amazing we
say huge huge is a good word to use it
means very very big okay now we have
another word here that's interesting
because we want to say that this person
is in the middle point of something they
are right in the middle of something you
have an area or maybe a room but you're
right at the middle point of that room
or that area where are you you are in
the center we say in oops in the center
in the center in the center of the room
in the center of the field right in the
center of the paper something that is in
the very middle of something the exact
middle of something they are in the
center of it in the center so here we
have a lot of fruit a lot of fruit right
more than enough there's there's enough
food to make us full but there's more
than if we can't eat all of this food we
can't eat it
so we have plenty we have plenty of food
we have plenty of fruit we have plenty
of wood we have plenty of air right so
we have more than enough we have plenty
we have plenty of food please come over
share our lunch I have plenty of food I
can share my lunch with you I have
plenty ok another word we have to watch
something if you're watching something
what are you doing you're looking at it
so this woman is looking at her shoe
right she's trying to get her shoe maybe
she can't but she's looking at it right
she's trying to grab it her shoe was
under her bed but we look at things look
at and watch are very similar you watch
a television show you look at your
television you watch a television show
you watch your dog you look at your dog
right so when you watch
thing.you but by the way when you want
something you watch it for a long time
when you look at something it can mean
you look at it for a long time it can
also mean you look at it to examine it
what what's going on what is it okay
so look at and watch you're very similar
you look at something you watch it see
is very quick do you see it yeah I see
it it's over there go get up I see it
right that's very quick but you look at
it okay I'm watching it okay so you look
at or watch something and then you see
it very quick well I see it it's right
there okay okay so those are the
differences between look at watch and
see okay to make a tree fall down to
make a tree fall down this was a huge
tree it fell down and then they cut it
into pieces they're gonna make wood out
of it right what do we say we cut down I
just said it they cut the tree down they
cut it down and they cut it into
different pieces but when you cut down a
tree that means it falls down by the way
in America when the workers go in the
forest and they cut down a tree they
yell something what do they yell they
yell timber right timber timber timber
it means the tree is falling down but
timber also is another word for wood
it's interesting right so it's like the
workers are going out there cut down the
tree wood but they don't say would they
say timber and that means watch out
judge male get out of the way all right
so that's very interesting if you're in
the forests in America and you hear
somebody say timber look around right
there might be a tree falling down
hopefully not but probably not but
anyway that's what they say when you cut
down a tree that's what happens you make
a tree fall down you make it fall down
okay something round we talked about
that our ring is round but a ring makes
a shape what is this shape called it's a
circle this is a circle we can also say
it's a ring like the ring on my finger
or the ring in a tree it's a circle it
makes a circle it's round so something
that is round it makes a circle makes a
circle that's the shape the circle is
the shape it is round
you could also say it has a round shape
also a ring our ring is a round shape it
is a circle
a ring makes a circle okay not inside
these people are not inside their house
they are what the opposite of inside is
out side that's very easy right
in in out opposite inside means inside a
building in a building in a building
someplace where you have a roof a
ceiling and walls around you you are
inside in a building but if you are out
of a building there's no ceiling above
you is sky around you just air all right
then you are outside so inside in a
building outside out of a building
okay so inside outside next to add up to
find the total so this girl is using a
very old device to do what she's doing
what what is she doing she is counting
to count one two three four that's one
way to count another way is to add up to
find the total let's say you have many
pieces of candy you want to know how
many pieces of candy do you have you go
one two three four 15 20 50 I have 50
pieces of candy right so you're counting
the pieces of candy don't eat 50 pieces
of candy you will get a stomachache
right just eat one or two pieces of
candy but to add up the to find the
total your count
something one two three four and so on
to count okay the next word that's kind
of a funny picture right these guys are
buddies but you can see there's a big
difference between these two gentlemen
here right this guy's huge this guy is
not huge he's not thick
by the way thick thick also means you
know like this right he's not fat it
doesn't necessarily mean fat it just
means that he's got a wide body right
he's got a wide body he's thick he's not
thick when a person isn't thick we say
that they are thin thin so thick and
thin are opposites pandeiro right
pandeiro this man is thick this man is
thin but we don't really say people are
thick we kind of say he's big okay he's
a big guy he's a thin guy you can't say
thin thin is used for people it's also
used for trees right or other things
right a book a book can be thick or a
book can be thin a thick book a thin
book a big person a thin person okay we
don't really say he's a thick person we
say he's a big person

## toggle timestamps Transcript

00:00
[Music]
00:05
let's start with the vocabulary for this
00:08
lesson the first word has to do with
00:11
this picture here what do we call this
00:15
here this is trees cut up cut up for
00:20
making something we make a lot of things
00:24
from trees we've talked about this in
00:27
previous lessons probably you've we've
00:30
studied together on a previous lesson we
00:32
can see that trees are used for what
00:34
trees are used to make wood we use wood
00:38
to make other things like houses
00:41
furniture desk chair toys you can have
00:46
toys made out of wood these things are
00:50
wooden right a wooden chair a wooden
00:54
desk a wooden toy things made out of
00:59
wood wood okay what's our next word the
01:04
next word has to do with this here of
01:06
course it's been cut this is a tree that
01:08
has been cut but what is the main stem
01:12
of a tree if you remember or if you
01:15
studied about plants you know there are
01:17
many different parts of a plant right
01:20
there are the roots
01:21
there's the stem there's the branches
01:25
the leaves right the flower in some
01:28
plants but on a tree right the stem we
01:32
have a special word for it because a
01:33
small plant we don't say this word but
01:36
for a big tree it's strong it's thick
01:39
and we use it to make wood what is this
01:42
part of the tree we call it the trunk
01:46
trunk T our truck truck trunk trunk
01:52
we call it the trunk of a tree we don't
01:56
really say the stem of a tree that
01:58
sounds a little strange
02:00
instead we say the trunk of a tree but
02:04
if it's a small plant yes you can say
02:06
the stem but a big plant like a tree
02:09
that's weird we would say the trunk of a
02:13
tree not really the stem of a tree that
02:15
sounds a little bit strange so it's
02:17
better to say the trunk of a tree and
02:19
it's the trunk where we get our wood
02:22
from most of our wood you can get some
02:25
wood from the branches yes but mostly
02:27
it's the trunk where we get our wood
02:31
okay if you look at the trunk of a tree
02:34
that's been cut right this way not this
02:37
way
02:38
but this way you can see these things
02:41
here what are these there's around
02:42
circles these aren't a circle or many
02:46
circles inside a tree trunk so we want
02:50
to know about one we're talking about
02:51
singular not plural one of these is
02:54
called a ring a ring a ring basically is
02:59
a circular shape right many married
03:02
people have a ring on their finger right
03:05
it's a it's a round shaped like a circle
03:08
right and we call these rings right
03:11
rings many we say rings so our sound a
03:16
ring an ng um ring ring okay so we say
03:24
ring a circle inside a tree trunk wow
03:27
you can see many rings inside the tree
03:31
now we have another word that we can use
03:34
look at this tree this is a very very
03:37
big tree it's big we use a special word
03:41
to say something that's very big this
03:44
tree trunk of course this tree trunk is
03:46
big but look at this tree wow it goes
03:49
from here all the way over to there
03:51
that's really big and this is a person
03:53
here right so that's your scale right
03:56
it's very very big these trees probably
04:00
are growing in Northern California or
04:03
Oregon Washington the trees are really
04:07
big in those states in America what do
04:10
we say they're really big one word we
04:12
can say they're huge
04:15
they're huge they're really really big
04:18
if you go to Northern California Oregon
04:21
or Washington State you can see these
04:24
trees in the forest you walk you
04:27
whoa they're huge they're so amazing we
04:31
say huge huge is a good word to use it
04:34
means very very big okay now we have
04:38
another word here that's interesting
04:40
because we want to say that this person
04:43
is in the middle point of something they
04:48
are right in the middle of something you
04:51
have an area or maybe a room but you're
04:54
right at the middle point of that room
04:57
or that area where are you you are in
05:00
the center we say in oops in the center
05:07
in the center in the center of the room
05:11
in the center of the field right in the
05:16
center of the paper something that is in
05:19
the very middle of something the exact
05:21
middle of something they are in the
05:23
center of it in the center so here we
05:27
have a lot of fruit a lot of fruit right
05:31
more than enough there's there's enough
05:34
food to make us full but there's more
05:36
than if we can't eat all of this food we
05:38
can't eat it
05:39
so we have plenty we have plenty of food
05:45
we have plenty of fruit we have plenty
05:48
of wood we have plenty of air right so
05:52
we have more than enough we have plenty
05:54
we have plenty of food please come over
05:57
share our lunch I have plenty of food I
06:01
can share my lunch with you I have
06:04
plenty ok another word we have to watch
06:08
something if you're watching something
06:11
what are you doing you're looking at it
06:14
so this woman is looking at her shoe
06:17
right she's trying to get her shoe maybe
06:19
she can't but she's looking at it right
06:21
she's trying to grab it her shoe was
06:23
under her bed but we look at things look
06:26
at and watch are very similar you watch
06:29
a television show you look at your
06:32
television you watch a television show
06:35
you watch your dog you look at your dog
06:38
right so when you watch
06:41
thing.you but by the way when you want
06:42
something you watch it for a long time
06:44
when you look at something it can mean
06:47
you look at it for a long time it can
06:49
also mean you look at it to examine it
06:51
what what's going on what is it okay
06:54
so look at and watch you're very similar
06:57
you look at something you watch it see
07:00
is very quick do you see it yeah I see
07:02
it it's over there go get up I see it
07:05
right that's very quick but you look at
07:07
it okay I'm watching it okay so you look
07:13
at or watch something and then you see
07:15
it very quick well I see it it's right
07:17
there okay okay so those are the
07:19
differences between look at watch and
07:21
see okay to make a tree fall down to
07:26
make a tree fall down this was a huge
07:28
tree it fell down and then they cut it
07:31
into pieces they're gonna make wood out
07:33
of it right what do we say we cut down I
07:36
just said it they cut the tree down they
07:38
cut it down and they cut it into
07:40
different pieces but when you cut down a
07:42
tree that means it falls down by the way
07:46
in America when the workers go in the
07:48
forest and they cut down a tree they
07:50
yell something what do they yell they
07:52
yell timber right timber timber timber
07:59
it means the tree is falling down but
08:02
timber also is another word for wood
08:06
it's interesting right so it's like the
08:09
workers are going out there cut down the
08:10
tree wood but they don't say would they
08:12
say timber and that means watch out
08:15
judge male get out of the way all right
08:17
so that's very interesting if you're in
08:19
the forests in America and you hear
08:21
somebody say timber look around right
08:24
there might be a tree falling down
08:26
hopefully not but probably not but
08:29
anyway that's what they say when you cut
08:31
down a tree that's what happens you make
08:34
a tree fall down you make it fall down
08:37
okay something round we talked about
08:41
that our ring is round but a ring makes
08:44
a shape what is this shape called it's a
08:48
circle this is a circle we can also say
08:51
it's a ring like the ring on my finger
08:54
or the ring in a tree it's a circle it
08:57
makes a circle it's round so something
09:00
that is round it makes a circle makes a
09:07
circle that's the shape the circle is
09:10
the shape it is round
09:11
you could also say it has a round shape
09:14
also a ring our ring is a round shape it
09:18
is a circle
09:20
a ring makes a circle okay not inside
09:25
these people are not inside their house
09:28
they are what the opposite of inside is
09:31
out side that's very easy right
09:35
in in out opposite inside means inside a
09:40
building in a building in a building
09:45
someplace where you have a roof a
09:48
ceiling and walls around you you are
09:51
inside in a building but if you are out
09:54
of a building there's no ceiling above
10:01
you is sky around you just air all right
10:05
then you are outside so inside in a
10:09
building outside out of a building
10:11
okay so inside outside next to add up to
10:17
find the total so this girl is using a
10:20
very old device to do what she's doing
10:25
what what is she doing she is counting
10:27
to count one two three four that's one
10:34
way to count another way is to add up to
10:37
find the total let's say you have many
10:39
pieces of candy you want to know how
10:41
many pieces of candy do you have you go
10:44
one two three four 15 20 50 I have 50
10:53
pieces of candy right so you're counting
10:56
the pieces of candy don't eat 50 pieces
10:59
of candy you will get a stomachache
11:01
right just eat one or two pieces of
11:03
candy but to add up the to find the
11:06
total your count
11:07
something one two three four and so on
11:11
to count okay the next word that's kind
11:14
of a funny picture right these guys are
11:16
buddies but you can see there's a big
11:18
difference between these two gentlemen
11:21
here right this guy's huge this guy is
11:25
not huge he's not thick
11:28
by the way thick thick also means you
11:30
know like this right he's not fat it
11:33
doesn't necessarily mean fat it just
11:35
means that he's got a wide body right
11:38
he's got a wide body he's thick he's not
11:42
thick when a person isn't thick we say
11:44
that they are thin thin so thick and
11:49
thin are opposites pandeiro right
11:52
pandeiro this man is thick this man is
11:56
thin but we don't really say people are
11:59
thick we kind of say he's big okay he's
12:03
a big guy he's a thin guy you can't say
12:06
thin thin is used for people it's also
12:09
used for trees right or other things
12:13
right a book a book can be thick or a
12:15
book can be thin a thick book a thin
12:19
book a big person a thin person okay we
12:23
don't really say he's a thick person we
12:25
say he's a big person